

Changes of Kambili

Write an essay that analyzes how Kambili matures over the course of the novel. Support your analysis with key examples from the text and one other outside source.

B) 	In Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel Purple Hibiscus, Kambili matures over the course of the novel from a quiet girl to an outspoken girl who learns about how others can help her. Three characters who helped Kambili change the most throughout the novel were Amaka, Papa Nnukwu, and Father Amadi.  In the novel, Aunty Ifeoma brings her to a new environment in Nsukka, where she meets new people who make her open such as Father Amadi that helps bring her closer to other family members. Over the course in the novel, Kambili becomes more open to speak her mind and stand up to her father when she had returned home, giving evidence on her living in different place can change the nature or idea of a person.
	 Amaka is an important character who helped influence Kambili. Amaka is the daughter of Aunty Ifeoma. In Amaka’s house they’re are religious but they sing prayers instead of saying it compared to Kambili household. Amaka doesn’t eat at the dinner table in her house and doesn’t have a set schedule which made Kambili surprised and puzzled. In the novel, Aunty Ifeoma encourages her kids to speak up for themselves which makes Kambili change in the story. Also, in Amaka’s house they are more laughter and talking then Papa Eugene’s house. “So, your voice can be this loud, Kambili,” she said “(Adichie p170). Amaka is telling Kambili that she can talk loud in her household because she is not used to things like this. “Because you’re bored with it? If only we all had satellite so every day could be bored with it” (Adichie p79).
Papa Nnukwu also helped change Kambili change over the course of the novel. “He was still smiling as I quietly turned around and went back to the bedroom. I never smiled after we said the rosary back home. None of us did” (Adichie p169). Kambili usually never see things or behavior from someone else that appreciates her and makes her happy. “I dashed to the pieces on the floor as if to save them, as if saving them would mean saving Papa Nnukwu” (Adichie p210). This tells us that Papa Nnukwu build a new character in Kambili. This new character shows that Kambili is caring, thoughtful, and it had been spread through her due to Papa.
Father Amadi was another person in the novel who helped Kambili reach her true inner self. “Didn’t he know that I did not want him to leave, ever? That I didn’t need to be persuaded to go the stadium, or anywhere, with him? The afternoon played across my mind as I got out the car in front of the flat. I had smiled, rub, laughed. My chest was filled with something like bath foam. Light, the lightness was so sweet I tasted it on my tongue, the sweetness of an overripe bright yellow cashew fruit” (Adichie p180). Kambili has rubbed on Father Amadi and that because of him she wasn’t persuaded to go to stadium and taught her how to make her own choices and decision. Kambili also felt alive and was filled with joy and happiness because of him.
These three characters who helped Kambili change the most throughout the novel were Amaka, Papa Nnukwu, and Father Amadi. Kambili improved tremendously and her true colors were brought out due to these important people. Kambili’s father was holding her back from happiness and her true self. If it wasn’t for these people Kambili would be lost in the world and living a miserable life trying to make her father dreams come true and make him happy. Those three people were the best thing that ever happened to Kambili.

Work Cited
Adichie Chimamanda Ngozi, Purple Hibiscus. Published 2003
https://www.litcharts.com/lit/purple-hibiscus/chapter-1
https://www.litcharts.com/lit/purple-hibiscus/summary
https://prezi.com/g6pyl2xt4d_s/characterization-in-purple-hibiscus/
http://www.gradesaver.com/purple-hibiscus/study-guide/character-list
https://studymoose.com/purple-hibiscus-character-list-essay
