Doctor Faustus’ Deserving Damnation
     In one of Christopher Marlowe’s major dramas, The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus, the eponymous protagonist is an extremely well-educated doctor that has become dissatisfied with his academic pursuits, having mastered every subject that can possibly be studied.  He becomes fascinated with the concept of black magic and the powers that come with it, and summons a demon named Mephistophilis.  Faustus makes a deal with the demon, exchanging his soul and his body being damned to Hell for twenty-four years of magic abilities.  Earlier in the play, Faustus had expressed his disbelief in divinity, including Hell, so he did not take the fate that threatened his future demise seriously.  Though Faustus states he does not believe in Hell, several factors throughout the play show he knew better than to commit his wrong deed, therefore solidifying his damnation to it.
     Faustus was not anything if he was not a scholar.  In the prologue for the play, Faustus is introduced by the Chorus as a scholarly fellow:
	Of riper years to Wittenberg he went,
	Whereas his kinsmen chiefly brought him up.
	So soon he profits in divinity,
	The fruitful plot of scholarism graced,
	That shortly he was graced with doctor’s name,
2

	Excelling all whose sweet delight disputes
	In heavenly matters of theology. (Prologue. 13 – 19)
The Chorus states that Faustus was an excellent student, with his studies focusing primarily in theology.  Though it is not made clear why Faustus chose to study this subject, other than his obvious thirst for knowledge of all things, it is made clear that he had a profound understanding of it.  Faustus had devoted a large amount of his time studying religion, God, Heaven, and Hell amongst other things, so it is impossible to assume that he was unaware of the consequence brought upon sinners in a religious belief system.  Despite this, he disregards divinity in the beginning of the play, claiming:
	When all is done, divinity is best.
	Jerome’s Bible, Faustus, view it well:
	Stipendium peccati mors est: ha!  Stippendium, etc.
	The reward for sin is death?  That’s hard.
	Si pecasse negamus, fallimur, et nulla est in nobis veritas:
	If we say that we have no sin,
	We deceive ourselves, and there’s no trust in us.
	Why then belike we must sin,
	And so consequently die.
	Ay, we must die an everlasting death.
	What doctrine call you this?  Che sará, sará:
	What will be, shall be?  Divinity, adieu! (1. 37 – 48)
 3

One will notice in the footnotes of our textbook that after Faustus recites Romans 6:23, he neglects the rest of the verse: “For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.”  This brings the question of how well Faustus actually studied his material.  Yes, he was a prolific doctor, but according to this part in Scene 1, he may have had a tendency to take away from the Bible only what he wanted to, or only what he understood.  Perhaps in neglecting the rest of the verse, Faustus acknowledged that there are consequences of sin, but he would rather choose not to believe them.  However, choosing not to believe something and not actually believing in something are two different things.
     Another interesting quality of Faustus, apart from his well-rounded knowledge, is how his conscience is represented.  Much like the similar tropes we have become familiar with in cartoons and movies, a Good and Bad Angel appear to him throughout the play.  They symbolize the consequences of Faustus’ actions; following the Good Angel’s words means repenting and continuing to abide by the scripture, while following the Bad Angel’s words means to give into sin.  Since Marlowe wrote these characters as merely allegorical representations of Faustus’ conscience, he has the ability to choose which Angel’s advice to follow.  Of course, he deliberately ignores the Good Angel and follows the Bad Angel’s advice, willingly committing a sin.  Faustus is fully aware that he is making the morally-wrong choice, for he surely knows that nothing good can come from anything the Bad Angel would be persuading him to do.  Additionally, this man that has so openly denounced religion, chooses to see his inner voice – or voices – as angels.  Though it is understandable for him to be familiar with the concept of angels 

 4

due to his intense theological studies, it does not make sense for him to allow angels to represent his moral complications if he does not believe in them.
     The Angels are not the only characters in the play that have historical roots in biblical or religious sources.  Faustus’ entire plan is to exchange his soul to the devil in order to acquire God-like powers.  In practicing his dark magic, Faustus goes to great lengths to summon devils and Mephastophilis is the demon that appears before him.  Though Faustus has disregarded divinity, he seems to have no doubt in his mind that black magic and Satanic rituals will work for him.  Though the dark arts may not correlate to divinity exactly, to believe in demons and Satan is to believe in Hell.  However, Faustus makes a clear point in saying he thinks Hell “is a fable” (5. 126).  Though he does not believe in Hell, he does not seem to question Mephastophilis being a demon nor question his existence.  Therefore, Faustus knows Mephastophilis exists, he just may not know how or where he is from.
     The most obvious indication of Faustus’ knowing better than to make a deal with the devil is at the very end of the play.  The twenty-four years of Faustus’ power-reign is ending, and despite his fellow scholars’ urging him to repent before he is sent to Hell, he remains stubborn.  Finally, as the clock strikes twelve, he cries:
	O it strikes, it strikes!  Now body, turn to air,
	Or Lucifer will bear thee quick to hell.
	O soul, be changed into little water drops
	And fall into the ocean, ne’er be found.
	My God, my God, look not so fierce on me!
 5

	Adders and serpents, let me breathe awhile!
	Ugly hell gape not!  Come not, Lucifer!
	I’ll burn my books – ah, Mephastophilis! (13. 106 – 113)
Whatever fears Faustus had been able to avoid throughout the years had finally gotten to him.  He finally came to repent to God, asking for forgiveness, but it was too late.  Due to Faustus’ roots in theological knowledge, it is safe to assume that deep down he knew Hell existed and he knew he would pay consequences, but merely chose to ignore it.  
     Of course, there can be counter arguments for this theory.  One could argue that Faustus did not believe in Hell at all, despite his academic ventures, therefore he was undeserving of his tragic fate.  But Faustus knew what he was doing.  Choosing to denounce divinity, to follow in the Bad Angel’s advice, to make an exchange with the Devil, and to use his newly acquired powers for personal gain were all his choice.  Claiming his disbelief in something such as Hell did not make it nonexistent, as he soon discovered for himself.  Faustus made the wrong choices and unfortunately was damned to Hell, but in no way was he undeserving.
