The rich vs. The poor: Does inequality still exist?
Martin Luther King Jr was a well-known activist who spent most of his adult life trying to get rid of inequality through his protests and speeches to the American people. Inequality in the American society has widened over the years and has not changed or showed signs of reducing. Inequality has widened to the point that a gap between the wealthy and the poor is established. The inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor in today's society makes it impossible for the poor to achieve their American dream because taxes are high, educational opportunities are limited, and racial inequality exists.
Paying taxes is not a topic most Americans like to talk about especially if they are low income earners. According to Pew research, "low income individuals more than likely pay their taxes at every due date compared to wealthy individuals who do not bother paying taxes at all." When wealthy individuals decide not to pay their taxes, it results in higher taxes for the poor to pay. Another source is Marcus Hawkins from ThoughtCo who believes that raising taxes spread out the burden of costs which eventually hurt the lower income individuals because high costs make it harder for low-income individuals to survive. The Institute on taxation and economic policy released a study in 2015 assessing the fairness of state tax systems. The study showed that every state tax system is fundamentally unfair by taking a greater share of income from low and middle-income families than from wealthy families. It also added that state and local tax systems are indirectly contributing to growing income inequality by taxing low- and middle-income households at significantly higher rates than wealthy taxpayers. The result from this study proved that tax payment between the rich and poor is not equal and fair because the rich obviously do not care about how high tax rates are for the low and middle-income families and it does not affect them in any way because regardless of how much taxes they pay; they are still wealthy.
In addition to taxes being high for poor individuals, educational opportunities are also limited to the children in the society. Robert Putnam, an American political scientist once said, "Smart poor kids are less likely to graduate from college now than dumb rich kids. That's not because of the schools, that’s because of all the advantages that are available to rich kids." Educational opportunities are mostly limited to children from wealthy backgrounds because they have the opportunity to attend private schools, compared to poor students who go to public schools. Children in private schools are more open to opportunities that ultimately put them at the top with more resources that help them become successful. However, in public schools, resources are not adequate and a lot of opportunities are not provided for them to make use of because they solely rely on the government for their funds. Education is an important tool in today's society that is used to determine how much an individual would make if they want to make a living. However, because of the difference in economic status and level of education provided, not all individuals in today's society get the chance to build their lives and obtain their American dream because they were poor and they did not have enough resources and information that they could have used to obtain the god things.
Over the years, racial inequality has been a pressing issue in the United States and it still occurs in today's society. Racial inequality is a factor that prevents poor Americans from achieving their American dreams because most people do not take it as a serious issue. According to Janelle Jones, an economic analyst in the Economic Policy Institute, "The racial wealth gap is much larger than the wage or income gap by race. Average wealth for white families is seven times higher than average wealth for black families.” In addition, another study done by the Economic Policy Institute in 2015 showed that the pay gap between white and black workers reached up to 26.7% from 18.1% - with white workers making $25.22 an hour on average, while black workers made $18.49. Whether or not people choose to accept it, racial inequality is an issue that needs to be addressed because some people are prevented from achieving good things solely based on the color of their skin. Judging a person based on the color of their skin and appearance, cannot give the actual representation who the individual is as a person. The fact that individuals are judged based on the color of their skin also prevents them from achieving their American dream because most people assume that poor people with a different skin tone are supposed to do the small jobs and cannot achieve bigger things than that. But, regardless of a person's race, they should not be downgraded to low class jobs because each person is different and have different capabilities of their own.
Opponents of these views present several arguments. They believe that the poor should pay high taxes because the wealthy work hard every day and they should not be held accountable for tax payments. They also believe that poor people make the decision to not further their education because there are enough educational institutes and resources. Furthermore, they argue that individuals of other races like African Americans and Hispanics are expected to stay in low class jobs like house cleaning and mechanics.
However, these views may easily be refuted. Studies have showed that higher taxes result in low wages, inadequate incomes, job losses, high crime rates, poverty, and homelessness. All of these are valid reasons why taxes should not be increased because it would negatively impact the economy and lead to more destruction rather than construction. In relation to poor people paying higher taxes than rich people, it prevents the poor from being able to further their education because more than half of their incomes are directed to taxes. Basically, poor students do not choose to stop getting an education because they are lazy, but instead they all do not get to further their education because the funds are not available, the government does not take them seriously, and most do not want to risk taking out loans because they know that paying it back would be hard based on their poor lifestyle. As opposed to children from wealthy backgrounds who have trust funds and wealthy parents to rely on for money, children from poor backgrounds do not have that opportunity or resource available. Lastly, individuals typically African American and Hispanic are more than likely to succeed in any given job because of their determination to provide for members of their family. They tend to make good use of the opportunities and give it their all because they also want to be successful. Research show that sixty-four percent of black females and fifty percent of black males hold white-collar positions. Also, African Americans make up about two-percent of high level executives in Fortune 500 companies which shows that everyone regardless of their race is capable of being successful in what they want and everyone is capable of breaking misconceptions.
In conclusion, the inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor result in the poor not achieving their American dream because taxes are high, educational opportunities are limited and racial inequality exists. In today's society, poor people are looked down upon because they live a different lifestyle. However, everyone can be successful in this society f they are given the chance to succeed and given opportunities to prove that they are also worthy of being successful in the society.
