Analysis Paragraph Final: The Importance of Ifeoma’s Flat
(D.)	In Purple Hibiscus, numerous symbolisms and themes emerge throughout the novel.
Write an essay that analyzes one symbol or theme that emerges from the novel.  Support your analysis with key examples from the text and one other outside source.
	How does the author use Ifeoma’s flat in the literary text to illustrate an escape for Jaja and Kambili from their life at home? Adichie uses Ifeoma’s flat to illustrate how differently Jaja and Kambili act at home verses at Ifeoma’s flat by explaining how differently they acted at each home, contrasting the differences of the two homes, and depicting the consequences of what they did at their aunt’s flat. 
	 The author explains how differently the children act at each house because they see their aunt’s house as an escape from home. In Nsukka, Jaja and Kambili are not held to a daily schedule unlike at home in Enugu. Aunty Ifeoma takes their schedules away saying, “you are on holiday here and it is my house, so you will follow my rules” (Ifeoma, page 124). And Jaja and Kambili are confused and tell her that their father gave them a schedule to follow while they stay in Nuskka like they do at home. They are allowed to go outside and play like normal kids, but at home is a different story. Staying at Ifeoma’s flat they get to play football with father Amadi. But at home their only free time is when they are reading the newspaper, listening to the radio, and playing chess. And at home they are never allowed at express themselves although they can at Ifeoma’s flat. Jaja and Kambili fight they strong urge to sing the “uplifting Igbo songs” during the rosaries because they were taught not to at home. But Aunty Ifeoma and her family sing during rosaries and she lets her niece and nephew know it’s okay to join in by saying “we do here” when Jaja says “we don’t sing at home” (Jaja, page 125). By explaining how differently they act in these houses, leads us to why they act so different at each place?
Adichie proves the flat was an escape by comparing the differences between each of the houses by describing the expectations and environment of each. The author describes Ifeoma’s flat as place where Kambili and Jaja are free to express their curiosity and explore their child-like wonder. It becomes a safe place for Jaja and Kambili to question what they don’t understand and express how they feel. They are in an environment that is free of harsh judgement and dictatorship and simply a place where they can live and behave as children. While their home in Enugu is described as place where opinions and questions are looked down on. There is only one person allowed to control what happens in this house and who will do what. In this environment Kambili and Jaja are expected to follow that rules their father has laid out no matter what. They must live and act the way their father has instructed and must never defy them. And if they do not act as expected they will be held accountable and punished by their father in any way he sees fit.
By depicting the extreme consequences, they face at home Adichie convinces us that the flat in Nsukka was a haven for them to live a life they have been waiting for. When Kambili and Jaja found that their haven has been interrupted by their father they knew what it was about. They were scared and fearful of what repercussions they would face because of the quote on quote “sins” they committed in the father’s eyes. On the way home, they sat in silence wishing that they could go back to Nuskka. Once they got home both Kambili and Jaja were faced with a punishment most would call inhuman. Their father put them in a tub and poured boiling hot water on their feet. They both suffered burns on their feet that were severely burned and were sent to their rooms to dwell on the pain and think about what they have done. But they when they disobeyed an order from aunty Ifeoma they were never punished not to mention harshly.   
In conclusion throughout the book Purple Hibiscus the author has makes many different symbols and themes to help the read understand and connect the book as a whole. I used this essay to expand on a particular symbol I saw that was important to Kambili and Jaja: Ifeoma’s flat. And by utilizing Adichie’s details I have shown you that Ifeoma’s flat symbolizes to Kambili and Jaja by explaining how differently they acted at each home, contrasting the differences of the two homes, and depicting the consequences of what they did at their aunt’s flat.
