Being African-American and Muslim in today's society has its negative parts because of all the events happening now related to Muslims being called terrorists because of bombings, and African-Americans being killed publicly, leaving people of color scared and not feeling safe in public spaces. Unfortunately for me, I have once being in a situation where I felt like I altered public space, it occurred when I went to the grocery store in my Islamic attire with my hijab, and when I walked in, I felt judged, unsafe, and heartbroken because they only saw me in a negative way.
      When I walked into the store, I immediately felt judged because I knew for a fact that I was already tagged as a terrorist with my hijab on, which is similar to what happened to Brent Staples when he was assumed to be a thug, assumed to be a dangerous person, and also assumed to be a rapist that would hurt women, and all these misconceptions occurred because he was an African-American male walking in the streets at night with his hand in his pocket. At the same time, I also felt like they were whispering and saying things about me, already seeing me as someone with an ulterior motive other than just coming to buy something. I also felt judged based on what I was wearing because when people see the hijab and Islamic dress, they begin to get scared because to them, just seeing that attire means the beginning of the end, which also relates to a similar situation Brent went through. Brent was occasionally misjudged based on what he wore, which was just plain jeans and a shirt to the extent that he usually changed his clothes to a more professional attire when he was in the subway because he didn't want people regardless of the race to fear him.
      In addition to feeling judged, I also in a way felt unsafe. I felt unsafe because I felt like there was a possibility of me being bullied by pulling my hijab off or something worse. It's funny how people are scared of Muslims because they think they are terrorists, but I was also scared of getting shot because I had to watch my every move and I had to make sure that i didn't do anything sudden because if they found me suspicious, the police would have been involved just like when a reporter was being held at gunpoint because he was black and was unknown in the area. I also felt like I was going  to be blamed for anything that happened in that store just like when Brent was assumed to be a burglar and when the jewelry store lady brought out a dog because she feared what Brent could do and she just assumed that he was there to steal the jewelry. The fact that I wasn't sure of what exactly was going to happen scared me because I knew that if something bad happened, I was going to be judged based on what I wore.
    Lastly, I can still remember how heartbroken I felt to see people think of me in a negative way to the extent that they tried to stay as far away from me as possible thinking that i wouldn't notice the way they used their side eyes to watch me as they carefully and quickly moved away from me, just like when the white woman was "discreetly" trying to keep her distance from Brent that night, thinking that he didn't notice. As they tried to get away, they were in a rush like someone was chasing them, but I tried to ignore them and not look their way or walk in their direction because I knew they could assume I was following them or worse. I can never forget the look on their faces, and how parents pulled their children like I was some negative force on a mission  to kill them, and people locked their doors whenever Brent was in their sight because they felt like he was going to do something dangerous all because he was a black male walking the streets and minding his business.
     My experience that day, showed me that people are always going to think negatively about African-Americans and Muslims, mostly because of how the news and social media portrays them, and also because of the bad people who do unnecessary evil to innocent people because they want to but instead use God's name as as excuse . Something the world needs to understand is that not all Muslims and African-American are dangerous and they shouldn't be judged or characterized by the things bad people have done.