How Thomas Paine motivated America

	In 1776, the idea of gaining independence from Great Britain would have never crossed an American’s mind.. Thomas Paine changed nearly every Americans perception on independence from Great Britain when he wrote Common Sense. Paine’s writing style and past unique experiences made his writings so motivating and convincing, he was changing America’s outlook on life as they knew it. Paine pointed out the need for change in the current government, and how there wasn’t a better time for America than the present to make a move. He also is able to counter opposing views due to religion and doubtful minds by providing condescending thoughts and hard facts as a response. Throughout this paper I will discuss how Thomas Paine was not only able to motivate America to take on Great Britain confidently, but disprove all doubts and reasons not to go to war.  
Thomas Paine outlines a solution for the development of America’s own government.. Paine points out that right now it is enough for parliament to make decisions, “but as the colony increases, the public concerns will increase likewise, and the distance at which the members may be separated, will render it too inconvenient for all of them to meet on every occasion.”[footnoteRef:1] Paine suggests a solution to this problem would be to have a select few chosen, who share the same concerns and will make the same decisions everyone would if they could all be present. Paine furthers this example if the colony continues to grow, the government will adjust by having each region elect a representative, and “the elected might never form to themselves an interest separate from the electors.”[footnoteRef:2] Paine introduces this idea in a way that seems fair, easy, and one that will work. Paine also brings into account how America’s independence would be beneficial to our foreign affairs. He points out that “France and Spain never were, nor perhaps ever will be our enemies as Americans, but as our being the subjects of Great-Britain.”[footnoteRef:3] This seems like a pretty obvious benefit of independence, the opportunity to make new allies, and not be associated with Great Britain and have the same enemies by default. Paine just wants the people to understand that creating a government specifically for America is essential for the growth and future of the nation. [1:  Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Thomas P. Slaughter (Boston: Bedford St. Martins, 2001), 76.]  [2:  Paine, 76. ]  [3:  Paine, 88. ] 

When someone addresses a new idea for the first time, especially one as extreme as to claim independence from Great Britain, surely there will be people apprehensive about moving forward, or that don’t want to at all. Thomas Paine was able to provide a logical response to every excuse an American could have about not going to war. He acknowledges, “If there is any true cause of fear respecting independence, it is because no plan is yet laid down.”[footnoteRef:4] Paine believes the true fear America is feeling is because there is no plan to follow, whereas he has the solution to make this possible. Paine provides a layout for a new government, explaining each position and how the people could vote for a president and representatives, and know their opinions would be considered when governing. For most, the problem wasn’t getting the people motivated to take action, but convincing them that America as a whole was capable of doing this, without financially ruining them. Thomas Paine had the secretary of the navy calculate the prices America could expect versus the cost of the British navy, and proves that “for the twentieth part of the English national debt, [America] could have a navy as large again.”[footnoteRef:5] Providing the people with concrete numbers on how America can pull this off also provided a sense of comfort. Paine didn’t want Americans to worry over a national debt either, “No nation ought to be without a debt. A national debt is a national bond; and when it bears no interest, is in no case a grievance.”[footnoteRef:6] Paine wants Americans to trust where the nation puts its money, and know that the return is worth it. Paine states “A navy when finished is worth more than it costs”[footnoteRef:7] hoping Americans will see investing in a navy is a smart and obvious move. Paine brings up the point that people first came to America seeking religious freedom, but under Britain’s government they’re receiving the opposite. Paine explains how Britain’s current government opposing many of the main ideas from the bible. Paine references Gideon and the prophet Samuel from the bible and notes how “exalting one man so greatly above the rest cannot be justified on the equal rights of nature, so neither can it be defended on the authority of scripture; for the will of the Almighty expressly disapproves of government by kings.”[footnoteRef:8] Until Paine pointed out that even the bible didn’t approve of kings, people didn’t give Britain’s form of governing a second thought. The strategy of referencing the bible was a smart move by Paine, because so many Americans relied on the bible for answers and guidance. [4:  Paine, 96.]  [5:  Paine, 100. ]  [6:  Paine, 100.]  [7:  Paine, 102.  ]  [8:  Paine, 80.] 

Throughout Common Sense, Thomas Paine utilizes his writing skills and persuasive tactics to motivate America to become independent from Great Britain. Paine directs American’s attention to the fact that the government of Great Britain doesn’t suit their needs as it used to. America is growing and developing, so it deserves a government just as complex and tailored to America. Americans need to realize the opportunity they’ve been given, a chance to create a government that is fair, where everyone’s opinions would matter, and everyone would be considered equals. Paine is trying to get across that there is really no better time for America than now to claim independence. Paine countered the concerns of being able to afford a war or going against the bible by providing sufficient evidence. The best thing Thomas Paine did was putting all of these ideas into a pamphlet that would get mass produced to the colonies. Looking back, it is obvious American needed independence, thankfully Thomas Paine had the writing, persuasion, and confidence to get America started in the right direction.
