The World’s Best Park for the World’s Best Friend
For as long as I can remember, Busch Gardens Tampa has been my favorite place in the world. To me, Busch Gardens is even more magical than Disney. The rides, food, games, sights, and smells all come together to make such a symphony of happiness and joy. Aside from those, Busch Gardens is my favorite place because of all the memories with my friends and family. The thrilling rides, exotic creatures, and cherished memories of my childhood experiences are all reasons that I want to bring my best friend, Casey, to Busch Gardens Tampa.
The first reason that I would want to bring Casey to Busch Gardens Tampa is because of all the rides they have to offer, specifically the rollercoasters. Both Casey and I are huge thrill seekers and love the rush of adrenaline that we get from being on amusement park rides. The most famous ride in Busch Gardens (and my personal favorite) is the Sheikra [SHEEK-ruh], this ride is well known because of its infamous steep drop of more than ninety degrees from two hundred feet in the air. One of the other main attractions that I think Casey would like the most is Falcon’s Fury. Falcon’s Fury is the tallest free-standing drop tower in North America, which measures up to a staggering three hundred fifty-five feet tall. Once raised to the top of the drop tower, the seats rotate forward until the passengers are all facing the ground, then the ride holds the passengers for a randomized amount of time between two and five seconds before dropping the passengers. As the seats fall to the ground, they swing back outward like the claws of a Falcon as it swoops for its prey. 
Secondly, I want to bring Casey to Busch Gardens because of the animals that can be found all over the park. The amusement park is based on the continent of Africa, therefore you can find all kinds of animals indigenous to the continent in the park. While in Busch Gardens, you can find species such as lions, tigers, meerkats, zebras, penguins, orangutans, and snakes, as well as several species of aquatic life. Casey and I both have the most bizarre infatuation with penguins, so I think that the two of us would most definitely spend the most time in the penguin habitat. Although we both love penguins, we would still most definitely adore all the other animals.
The final reason that I would like Casey to come to Busch Gardens is because of all the precious memories I’ve made there throughout my life and I would love to make more of those memories with my best friend. The first time that I went to the park is when I was in the fifth grade, and I absolutely adored it from the moment I arrived. After that, I asked my parents for annual passes so that we could go anytime we wanted. Ever since then, I’d gone on a near-weekly basis until I moved to Tennessee in the eleventh grade. Busch Gardens Tampa holds a special place in my heart and I will always yearn to be there.
If it wasn’t easy enough to tell before, maybe now it is. Busch Gardens Tampa is easily my most favorite place in the world. All the memories I’ve made there make me want to share them with my best friend so that she can make the same wonderful memories that I’ve had over the years. Although I know that not everyone likes amusement parks, I am positive that Casey would truly cherish Busch Gardens as much as I do. The only thing better than being in my favorite place in the world is being there with my best friend. Just as I’ve come to prize such a truly spectacular place, I want everyone else to as well.