Is there still an American Dream?
For years, people have believed and even migrated America to be able to accomplish their “American Dream”. One of the basic principles that of our country was founded on has become a distance memory for poor and middle class people. So, the question is why haven’t they been able to succeed and reach their “American Dream” like the rich? Because the inequality gap between the rich and poor has continued to increase and has become a huge problem for the poor. The lower and middle class will not be able to realize their so called "American Dream" because of the inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor and middle class, the poor or middle class are not given the same opportunities, and the one percent possessing more control over power and wealth. 
One reason contributing to this is the inequality gap between the rich and poor and middle class. The inequality gap has grown so large that the poor and middle class can’t possibly be able to catch up with the rich. In the film, Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream - Why Poverty?, data of graphs are shown to prove that inequality gap has increased because “it is very hard to pull yourself out of extreme poverty in the United States”. The “mobility of the United States lags most other advanced democracies” such as Denmark, Canada, Spain, Japan, and many others. In America “there has always been a gap between the wealthy and everyone else but in the last 30 years [from 1980] something changed that gap became the Grand Canyon. While this is one reason that causes the gap to increase, there is another that ties hand in hand with each other: lack of opportunity. 
The poor or middle class are at a disadvantage due to not being given the same opportunities as the rich hindering them from getting the resources need to help them achieve their “American Dream”. The rich are given more opportunities because of the money and power they possess. Reardon F. Sean believes the achievement gap between children of high and low income families has also widened the inequality gap. “The income achievement gap has been growing for at least fifty years, though the data are less certain for cohorts of children born before 1970.” (Whither Opportunity?: Rising Inequality, Schools, and Children's Life Chances 111). He explains how due to the better and greater opportunities the higher income families are able to become more successful and rich compare to lower class income families. And due to the fact, that “[The poor and middle classes’] number one challenge is just a lack of opportunities in general” and that “even before birth [the poor] kids start [the] race behind” because of their lack of money makes it harder for them to reach their “American Dream” with their lack of skills (Park Avenue…Why Poverty?). Which brings us to the last reason of why they can not realize their dream: the control over power and wealth the rich possess.
The third reason people haven’t been able to realize their American Dream is because the rich has control over power and wealth. They rich have been buying politics to stop them from paying taxes and reducing their taxes. In the journal “Financing Politics: A Global View”, Michael Pinto-Duschinsky suggests that the 1% are writing rules that benefit them because no one has narrowed/defined and written rules for how the political finance should be used. “Election campaigns arguably are unfair when rich candidates or parties with wealthy supporters are able to spend far more than their opponents” and the rich use this method to buy the policies figure in to doing whatever they want. They buy politics to mold the law into what benefits them and only them (Financing Politics: A Global View).
Opponents of these views present several arguments. They claim that there are rich people today that were poor and achieved their “American Dream”. And that without giving money to campaigns than candidates would not be able to run for political positions because they don’t have enough money. Moreover, they think that children have the ability to succeed despite their income situation.   
 The purpose of my research is to inform and draw my audience’s attention towards a problem that is affecting America today. Which is if our “American Dream” still mean the same as it did years ago and if standing on its principle of hard work is enough to achieve this dream? And to call them to action, to step up and do something about this inequality in the current climate of American society. Due to the inequality gap between the one percenters and the lower and middle class caused by the control of power and wealth of the one percent, a large percentage of the Americans will never be able to realize that their so called “American Dream” will never happen no matter how hard the try.
