
	
	

The StrenthsFinders top themes align perfectly with my CareerLeader assessment.  Being an achiever, responsible, focused, futuristic, and a leader, respectively, is a completely awesome combination of strengths until compared and combined with the CareerLeader assessment. When aligning the two, my mind goes into a whirlwind of patterns of thoughts of who and how I am personally, as a student, and in the work place.
Achiever
With my strength of an achiever, I have a drive to not only accomplish task, but accomplish them proficiently. When I have not or cannot complete a task to the full extent, I become mind boggled with how to fix what is causing non-proficiency or learn more to be able to perform better. I even bring it upon myself to take on tasks thinking I am the only one to produce the best outcome. In comparison to CareerLeader, positioning is my top motivator. I love working in a position where training and experience are available to assist in my career.
Responsibility
With my strength of responsibility, I have gained many acquaintances who have trusted and confided in me. I am known to keep my word, uphold honesty, very adamant about meeting deadlines, and I have high standards for myself that others admire and persist to have for themselves. When compared to my CareerLeader top skill “Comfort with Differences,” I have a tendency to relate to people from many different backgrounds well.
Focus
With my strength to focus, I am determined to complete tasks on time and efficiently. I am very sure of what it is I choose to take on and am set out to do only the very best in that task. I persevere until a task is compete. I, at times, compare my accomplishments to others, but not to compete; more of an evaluation of self.  This compares to my CareerLeader skills “Ability to Compromise” and “Openness to Criticism.” I can “compromise” when difficult situations arise and am acceptable to critical feedback. These things help maintain my focus strength.
Futuristic
With my strength of futurism, I envision and set out to do that which I envision. I speak with so much confidence of my near and far future that others believe and begin to find their own beliefs and visions. I share these visions every day in stern beliefs that not only can my dreams come true, but they are happening now. I do not see how this strength compares to any of my CareerLeader skills or motivators.
Learner
With my strength to learn, I always take on new challenges and chances to learn new things. The more I research and learn about new topics or tasks, the more inquisitive I become. I thrive in knowing more, more, more! I believe that there is never too much to learn, and having the ability to not only learn, but have a love for learning is beyond anything in the universe. My strength to learn aligns powerfully with my whole CareerLeader skills and motivators. Each of my motivators and skills are a branch of my love for and willingness to learn.

Completing the StrengthFinders and CareerLeaders assessement has lead me to evaluate myself in numerous ways. The assessments have been very accurate in not only describing my strengths, motivators, skills, and interests, but aligning them in order of prevalence to what is really a part of me. As a person who has been in the work force for about 10 years, I can see how the assessment can be so accurate.

5
2
