Kambili’s Coming of Age
In Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche Kambili narrates the book in first person point of view but using past tense. Kambili, now eighteen is narrating what happened to her and her family when she was fifteen. Kambili’s journey of maturation is against her father’s strict catholic rules, which she must learn to deal with. Kambili’s faith remain strong as she had been raised in her home to be a catholic girl. Kambili’s stay in Nsukka with Aunty Ifeoma was a key cause of maturation, it allowed her to be introduced to a new environment, where she meets Father Amadi and has a opportunity to get close to other family members, Also she began to question the rule of her father and began to claim her own individuality.
Papa was very hesitant on letting Kambili stay with Aunty Ifeoma, he urged that she and JaJa did not like to be away from home. PaPa allowed Kambili and JaJa to visit Nsukka for the five days as long as they remain on schedule. Aunty Ifeoma’s household is much different from Papa’s. Aunty Ifeoma banishes Jaja schedules and emphasize that in her house they follow her rules. Kambili was shocked that Aunty Ifeoma believed that in order to get respect you have to give it. She also was surprised of Aunty Ifeoma’s flat conditions. “…, a tall bland building with peeling blue paint and with television aerials sticking out from the veranda.” (112) “I noticed the ceiling first, how low it was. I felt I could reach out and touch it; it was so unlike home, …”. (113) Kambili also notes that the furniture was well-worn when she aarrived. Kambili does not judge their economic status but she feels ashamed that she does not understand their way of life. Kambili begins to see what life is like outside of her compound, she feels she is a stranger to the simplest task.
In chapter 8 Kambili is introduced to her cousins Chima, Amaka, and Obiora. Amaka is the oldest child who is fifteen years old and is very outspoken. Obiora is Aunty Ifeoma’s second child who is fourteen and more mature for his age. Chima is the youngest child who is the youngest he is seven years old. Amaka assumes that Kambili judge them because of their economic status. “ Im sure you think Nsukka is uncivilized compared to Enugu.” (116-117) Kambili and Amaka relationship began to get better as kambili gained more feelings for Father Amadi. Kambili was introduced to Father Amadi at the end of chapter eight right before diner as a family. The interactions with Father Amadi was a major breakthrough in Kambili’s maturation because she began to gain deep feelings for her and he did for her as well. “Hearing my name in his voice, in that melody, made me feel taunt inside.” (148) Father Amadi encouraged Kambili to be her greater self which is a reason she fell in love with him.
As Kambili is continuing to mature she decides it is time to start telling the truth about her own pain. Amaka asked her if Papa was responsible for her sickness and she said yes, but she chooses not to discuss it because she has no way out.  This is a sign of maturity and by her not feling the need to please Amaka this deepens their bonds. As chapter 13 concludes Kambili remembers how many card games she lost but not the actual return to Enugu. “As I lay in bed, I did not think about going back to Enugu; I thought about how many card games I had lost.” (251)  As she was describing this even there was evidence of her growth in confidence. Kambili believes that God is still working on PaPa but still refuses to talk to him as a means of punishment.
Kambili’s sty in Nsukka with Aunty Ifeoma wa a very key cause of her maturation, it allowed her to be introduced to a new environment, where she meets Father Amadi and has the opportunity to get closer to other family members, also she began to question the rule of her father and began to claim her own individuality. Kambili started as an immature fifteen-year-old and ended as a very mature fifteen-year-old. Her experiences over the five days shaped molded her to maturity and also, she got a look into a different way of life.
