
Personal Narrative 
In his essay “Son,” author Andrew Solomon describes his struggles as growing up a gay man and his family’s struggles with accepting that. He revolves around the idea that almost everyone has some defining quality that puts them into a category. Sometimes, this can make them feel lonely, like they do not fit in with the rest of society. However, when a person meets someone else who falls into their category, they feel a connection because they are able to identify with each other. Finding a group of people that share an identity can help them feel loved and can be enriching. Some of the identities that Solomon mentions include gayness, deafness, and dwarfism. However, there are many more. People can form connections with someone else based on ethnicity, background, and even economic class. My identity comes in a different form. 
I have scars up and down my body, some from thorn bushes, dogs, iguanas. The only one that really matters is a three inch one just below my belly button. 
It started with a stomach ache. One that, instead of dissipating or being eased by a heating pack, just slowly got worse. At nine years old, I had no idea what was wrong with me. I told my parents about it, but it was assumed to go away at some point. Although it started as something subtle, a light pain in the background, soon I could focus on nothing else. During a gymnastic class one evening, the stretching of a back walk-over sent pain shooting through my torso. I left the studio choking back tears.
This is when we decided to see a doctor. Then, after an unbelieving stare, we went to see another. Each doctor we went to said the same thing: “It will go away soon.” Eventually, just standing in the shower was unbearable. Each water droplet felt like I was getting punched in the stomach. Soon after this turn for the worse, my stomach started turning blue. My parents rushed me to another doctor who took me into surgery the next day, although still unsure of the problem. 
A staph infection had caused me to miss a month and a half of school, a season of soccer, and countless piano lessons. During my eleven-day stay in the hospital, I went into the operating room almost every other day to get the dressing changed. I ate hospital turkey on thanksgiving. I used dry shampoo to minimize my time spent standing up. But I enjoyed all of this: the laziness, the food, and the attention. The hard part came after I left the hospital. 
I came back to school quieter. I came back to soccer an entire skill level behind everyone else. Throughout my time in the hospital and the recovery period after, I put on a good amount of weight. Every article of clothing made me self-conscious about my body. Bikinis were not even within the realm of possibilities. Even after high school soccer whipped me into shape, I still felt insecure. My scar is not a pretty one. There were no stitches, so it is a deep indent of conspicuous scar tissue. I did not want to talk about it and the thought of showing it to people was cringe-worthy. It had a grasp on me for so long.
My scar reminded me of my imperfections. It separated me from my peers in a way I found shameful. It represented an ugliness that would never go away. 
My mother would send reassuring words my way, trying to build my self-confidence. The most effective thing she did was be patient with me. She never said anything critical about my loose clothing choices or my insecurity during beach trips. She allowed me to find self-esteem on my own. This made me more confident in the long run, and I love her for not rushing me. 
After meeting other people who did not stress about hiding their imperfections, I started being more open about it. The first time I wore a two-piece bathing suit was a turning point for me. Somewhere along the line, my hatred for this ugly mark turned into a fondness. Not only did it have a story behind it for anyone who asked, but it made me feel special. I went through something that not many people do, and I no longer try to hide it. In fact, I sometimes look forward to an opportunity to tell people about why my scar is there. When I do describe my experience to other people, there are some parts I do not include: the fear I had before the surgery, the relief I had after, and the effects it had on me for years. 
Even when it is not visible, my scar reminds me of my ability to find the beauty in it and rebound from the experience. It reminds me that there is at least one part of me that is entirely unique. It reminds me that when I meet new people, I have a secret and only I have the ability to tell it. “Son” describes Solomon’s changes from being ashamed of his gayness to embracing it. He is now leading a happy life and has finally found inner peace. This directly relates to my attitude towards my scar. Starting with a need to hide one’s differences may aid in magnifying self-esteem later in life. Instead of just an innate confidence, this allows the person to be more assured in the reasoning behind his or her confidence. Once someone overcomes low self-esteem and finds true self-acceptance, he or she can focus on loving others and helping them with their struggles. 
My scar reminds me of my uniqueness. It separates me from my peers in a way I find intriguing. It represents a beauty that will last a lifetime.
In a way, my experiences made me more accepting of other people. For so long after my surgery, I viewed beauty as something external and shallow. I now realize that people should be judged by more than just their characteristics first noticed. People should be loved for more than what is on the surface. Similar to scars, personality traits often carry a background, a story told for those who listen. Reservation can stem from family dynamic. Depression can stem from traumatic experiences. Each person is a series of layers that must be peeled back before they can be fully understood and their true beauty can be found. 
Solomon mentions that often times, people with a certain identity find comfort in the company of others who have shared similar situations. Finding a group of people, or even just one person, who can empathize may completely change a person’s attitude toward his or her identity. It can sometimes even result in lasting friendships. Being accepted by one’s family and accepting others despite imperfections or differences is enriching. 
Although I do not reach out on blogs or find people on social media groups, I enjoy meeting others who have scars or marks that hide a story. It is interesting to know how they got their scars and how they feel about them. Some people cover them up, some relish in displaying them, and some forget about them entirely. Many people can explain exactly how they got their scars: a car crash, a dog bite, a burn. I find myself easily relating to these people. Others have no idea the background. Either way own scar amplifies my ability to commiserate. There is a commonality in knowing that someone else went through a similar experience or had a similar reaction. 
Looking back, I feel fortunate for having this experience because the struggle ultimately led to my self-acceptance. The patience and understanding that my parents showed me molded the way I view not just myself, but others as well. I find people’s differences beautiful and natural. I find myself paying special attention to people’s subtle differences, ranging from birthmarks to scars. A lot of people have some distinctive part of their body that serves as their own personal signature. I hope everyone will be able to accept their signature at some point in their life and realize that it serves to make them unique.
