Choose Life
Sav-A-Life is a pregnancy resource center that is available for any expectant mother.  Many of their clients are teenage girls and young women with unplanned pregnancies who are thinking about having an abortion.  Sav-A-Life's mission is to educate and help their clients make informed decisions.  They show an expectant mom other options that are available to her, such as adoption, and help her see that keeping her baby is possible too.  Sav-A-Life offers free pregnancy testing and confidential counseling.  Many centers also have ultrasound machines available with the hope that actually seeing her baby might help a woman considering abortion to think twice.
I volunteered at a Sav-A-Life center for two years, where I was a receptionist and later trained to be a counselor.  I met many scared, young girls, and I knew what they were going through because I had an unplanned pregnancy myself when I was twenty years old.  I remember how terrified I was when I realized I was pregnant and was afraid to tell anyone.  As a Sav-A-Life volunteer, I wanted those girls to know that having a baby was not the end of the world, that they were in a safe place where they could talk to someone who could help, and they would not be judged.  Sav-A-Life is a pro-life organization that supports expectant moms and provides information and alternatives to abortion for the hundreds of clients that walk through their doors every year.  Sav-A-Life confirms that "Each year, 9,000 women in Alabama believe that abortion is the only solution to an unplanned pregnancy.  Sav-A-Life is dedicated to putting an end to abortion not by legal and public policy, but by supporting one woman at a time, to spare her and her child from abortion" (Sav-A-Life.org).  Many organizations disagree with Sav-A-Life's mission and believe that a woman should be able to have the right to choose to have an abortion if she wants.  According to the article "Background of the Issue," "Proponents, identifying themselves as pro-choice, contend that choosing abortion is a right that should not be limited by governmental or religious authority, and which outweighs any right claimed for an embryo or fetus.  They say pregnant women will resort to unsafe illegal abortions if there is no legal option" (ProCon.org).  Women need to be educated so that they fully understand the consequences of such a life-changing decision.
On January 22, 1973, the United States Supreme Court's decision on Roe v. Wade declared an abortion procedure a "fundamental right."  The Roe v. Wade lawsuit was filed in Dallas, Texas by Norma McCorvey who became known as "Jane Roe" in court documents.  McCorvey was pregnant at the time and wanted to have an abortion to end her pregnancy.  However, abortion was illegal in Texas except to save the mother's life, and McCorvey ended up having her baby and gave it up for adoption.  She actually later became a pro-life activist and participated in silent prayer vigils outside abortion clinics.  More than 53 million abortions have been performed in the United States since Roe v. Wade, and most women who have abortions are in their twenties.  A reader commented, "When a pregnant woman is killed, it is considered a double homicide, but when a baby is aborted, it's considered a woman's right to her own body" ("Background of the Issue").  United States senator Rand Paul claims, "I am 100% pro-life.  I believe that life begins at conception and that abortion takes the life of an innocent human being.  It is the duty of our government to protect this life as a right guaranteed under the Constitution.  For this reason, I introduced S. 583, the Life at Conception Act on March 14, 2013.  This bill would extend the constitutional protection of life to the unborn from the time of conception" ("Should Abortion Be Legal?").  Through large scale efforts such as this bill and the continuing efforts of Sav-A-Life centers, abortion procedures can be diminished.
It is very sad that so many people try to justify reasons for killing a child.  Unplanned babies can become some of the biggest blessings in life but only if they are allowed to be born.  I read a personal testimony written by a thirty year old woman on the day she had her abortion.  She was in a new relationship and became pregnant quickly.  She decided that it was too soon to have a baby and chose to end the pregnancy.  She went to a clinic, where she learned about the abortion pill and was also given an ultrasound.  The woman explains, "The last thing was the ultrasound.  It will always be on my mind, the image of my baby" (Abortion Story:  Chicago, IL, par.2).  Actually seeing her baby on the monitor made her stop and think about what she was preparing to do.  If an ultrasound was required in order to have an abortion, a woman's mind could be changed before it is too late.  Sav-A-Life centers give each pregnant woman the opportunity to have an ultrasound for the very purpose of helping her to realize that she is carrying a child with a heartbeat, fingers and toes, and so much potential.  The woman in the story admits, "I will always remember today and what I saw in my restroom and the ultrasound.  If I knew how traumatic the experience was going to be I wouldn't have done it" (Abortion Story:  Chicago, IL, par. 4).  A lot of women probably regret having an abortion, but it cannot be reversed and is a permanent choice that the woman must live with for the rest of her life.
Sav-A-Life centers rely on the support of donors in order to be successful.  If a person is unable to give a monetary gift, Sav-A-Life also accepts donations of practical items, such as diapers, wipes, and baby clothes that they give to expectant mothers in need.  Each donation is likely to save precious, innocent lives, and no gift is too small.


Works Cited
"Abortion Story:  Chicago, IL."  Abort 73.com, 23 Oct. 2017.  14 Nov. 2017, www.abort73.com/testimony/2456/.
"Background of the Issue."  ProCon.org, 3 June 2016.  14 Nov. 2017, abortion.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006514.
Sav-A-Life.org.  Sav-A-Life Pregnancy Test Center, 2013.  14 Nov. 2017.
 "Should Abortion Be Legal?"  ProCon.org, 16 May 2017.  14 Nov. 2017, abortion.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=001447.