In Letter to My Daughter, author Maya Angelou writes about her experience
being a pregnant teenager and how that contributed to her growing up into a woman,
dedicated to the daughter she never had . In this passage, she gives the story of how
she allowed herself to be pressured by societal standards into thinking a carnal act can
help change her already changing body . Through this, the reader can decipher the fear
Angelou felt, which stopped her from telling her mother, the support she received from
her brother in keeping her pregnancy from her mother, allows tone readers to learn the
reason why this journey began and to allow others to learn from her mistakes instead of
making the same ones . By using a homesick and patient tone that transitions to one of
love, admiration, and appreciation - all the while staying patient, a use of pathos to
attach herself to the readers, and diction, Maya Angelou conveys the feeling she felt in
leaving her old home, moving to a new one, and accepting her family as her official
home after giving birth .
Angelou’s loving and patient tone is heard and felt in the beginning when talking
about her home with her grandmother . Her grandmother, to her, “was the picture of
dignity . She spoke softly and walked slowly, with her hands behind her back,” (Angelou,
2), and this was the highest she could esteem someone at that moment in her life .
When she left her home, away from her grandmother, her tone transitioned into one of
longing and homesickness . The reader is able to feel the pain and desire to go back
home . To leave her new house and mom to go back to her grandma and live as she
did . She missed her grandma dearly considering that she was, “[her] paternal
grandmother who raised [her],” and the she was Angelou’s, “remarkable influence on
how [she] saw the world and how [she] reckoned [her] place in it . ” Her tone contains the
stem of how she grew up and was treated . As Kate Meyer explains in her article, “The
Four Dimensions of Tone of Voice”, the message she has, for the daughter she never
had, can have one message but there are many different ways to get it across . The
author's personality should be shown throughout the writing . A writer’s tone should be
authentic . Throughout her passage, Maya Angelou keeps her personality evenly
throughout, even with the tone shifts and has a clear voice that reaches out to her
audience . Angelou allows her message on the importance of family with her own voice
without allowing someone else's in . Her loving tone filled with admiration and pride
comes back when speaking about her family, after the birth of her son . Her voice of
passion and pride comes through when speaking of her family after the birth of her son
in saying that she, “never had to spend one minute regretting giving birth to a child who
had a devoted family led by a fearless, doting, and glorious grandmother . ” (Angelou, 4) .
Her son allowed Angelou to connect to her mother . This connection allowed her to
deeply look into herself and see the qualities her mother carries . Through her becoming
a mother, Angelou became someone she was proud of, she became a picture of her
own mother . Throughout her passage, Angelou allows the readers to see the different
side that was created as she became the mother of a son . Her son, alongside her mom,
gave Angelou the motivation she needed in becoming a better and stronger woman .
Angelou shows how important it is to have her voice heard instead of just giving a story .
Her tone throughout the passage provides a guide to the story of her life, giving the
reader a place alongside the timeline of events, and helping bring her message across .
One of the many reasons her tone of voice is so important is the fact that her use
of this device helps create stronger bonds with the audience by connecting on a deeper
level to their emotions, by using pathos . As Nagib Callaos and Bekis Callaos explain in
their article, “Academic Ethos, Pathos, and Logos” , pathos are used to appeal to the
emotions of the readers . They believe that in order for this device should be the most
effective, all three, ethos and pathos and logos, should be used together as a support .
Although Angelou focuses mostly on the use of pathos, her thoughts are strongly
imprinted on the audience . The way she explains her self hatred as puberty hit, as a
thought of her “body’s betrayal”, (Angelou 3), and this being the cause she allowed
herself to indulge in the baby's father carnal desire . Her feelings towards her mother
and grandmother alike and how the change of living conditions affected her even
though her belief is that, “one can never leave home”, (Angelou, 1), and how deeply she
was affected by her family’s reaction towards their discovery of her pregnancy . Her
thoughts on her thinking she was bringing, “disgrace to the family”, (Angelou, 4),
created a web of self hatred and brought the reader closer to her . Through the mistakes
she made and the way she presents them to the public helps connect the reader to her .
This also allows her audience to get closer to her past and creates a want in them to try
and be a part of it . The pathos used are effective in creating a base of interest and give
the readers a sense that they belong . She uses this device to her advantage by
engaging the public as well as giving them a part in her ongoing story as a young
mother .
Her use of diction, or word choice, allows both the tone and the pathos to convive
and emerge strong . The simplest words she decided to use, such as, “submission to the
idea,” (Angelou, 1) and, “strange unfathomable things,” (Angelou, 1), helped bring the
emotional devices as together . This word choice is used to bring another authentic
sound to Angelou’s voice . The way she writes tells the audience about how and where
she grew up, giving more of an insight into her past and her education . As the readers,
we can tell what type of thoughts, for example, when she speaks about, “a preacher
passionately preaching to the already committed choir,” the reader can decipher how
observant Angelou is . Her observant side is also shown throughout the way she
explains how, “even large adult blacks,” (Angelou, 1) are demoted to, “psychological
dwarfs,” (Angelou,1) . Her word choice allows her tone to flow and be carried evenly
throughout the passage and aids in reaching the reader's soft spots . Angelou had the
choice to use simple words that could be easier for the audience to read, but instead of
this choice, she allowed the readers to engage with the words on the page . Those
words do not allow the reader to look past them, but force anyone's attention to them .
They require a deeper understanding and more thinking . Her choice in diction captures
the audience and lays the foundation for her tone and the pathos to be carried out .
No one strategy is more effective than the other . Angelou linked all these
strategies together in order to create a perfect balance without making one strategy
stronger than the other . Her tone worked alongside the pathos and her choice of diction
worked to bring her tone alive, loud, and clear . Without the diction, the tone runs the
possibility of being overlooked and does not give the opportunity to a deeper
understanding, which allows the pathos to be brought in . Her transition in tone would
not have been possible without the correct words . Her word choice in explaining how
her, “California house was a world away from the little home,” (Angelou, 2), she grew up
in in Arkansas, the reader can point out Angelou's homesick tone . The words, “a world
away,” (Angelou, 1), grab the attention of the reader and is a perfect example of how
important word choice is . The way Angelou explained the difference between her home
with her grandmother and her home with her mother, if explained any other way, would
have lost much attention . Being a “world away,” (Angelou, 1), forces the reader to
deeply think about how Angelou felt about leaving, and arriving, home . By explaining
her thoughts of growing up, finding a home, never truly leaving it, and always finding a
way back to a true home, Angelou does not allow attention to stray . This is another
example of her effective use of diction . Although all these devices are used equally to
support one another, Angelou's word choice is the main strategy that ties the other two
strategies, tone and pathos, together, which creates a strong and clear passage .
Angelou helps the reader understand the importance in having a home, a family .
In this passage we learn that, if it was not for her mother and father who offered her all
the support she could ask for, she would have never found her home away from home .
This being her home away from her grandmother, her original home .