Love; Interpretations, Feelings, and Balance
Although the two sculptures “Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin bare almost no physical similarities, they have much more in common than meets the eye. A few key similarities and differences within the two sculptures that will be discussed are the possible interpretations of the sculptures, feelings that are induced by their image, and their shape. Just by looking at the two sculptures, one would not guess that the two sculptures are very similar at all, but this essay will serve to shed some light both on the similarities and differences of the Indiana and Rodin pieces. To better serve the reader, the Indiana sculpture will be referenced to as sculpture one and the Rodin sculpture will be referred to as sculpture two.
As listed earlier, the first item at hand is how the viewer interprets each sculpture. Sculpture one seems to be simple, which can easily leave a lot to the imagination when it comes to the type of love being described, since it is only a word. On the other hand, sculpture two is very straightforward, showing specifically physical love, where a nude man and woman are intimately wrapped around each other and kissing. Sculpture two is very straightforward in the sense that it is a physical representation of love that is set into motion through imagery and symbolism. When looking at sculpture one, the first type of love that comes to mind is not so much the intimate type, but the idea of acceptance in a world where not all forms of love are viewed as equal. It's not hard to tell that in today’s society, there are still many people that view all love as unequal, or even invalid. It seems that the love being presented in sculpture one is more of a ‘love thy neighbor’ love than anything, but the point still remains that both of these sculptures represent the idea of love.
The next topic of discussion is the initial imprint that each sculpture leaves on the viewer in terms of emotion. Both sculptures leave a warm feeling when looking at them, and it is very possible that the feeling stems from the meaning of love. Where the differences come in lies within the context of the location of the sculptures. Sculpture one leaves a warm feeling because it is the only brightly colored item in a photo full of grays and blacks and whites. This is also helped because the primary color represented within the sculpture is red, which is also known as a warm color. The feelings perceived within sculpture two are represented the same way, except the roles are reversed to where it’s the background that produces this warm feeling and the sculpture is what seems to be lacking color. The main colors represented within each picture are warm colors, just presented in different ways for the viewer to experience.
Finally, the last item to bring attention to is the shape of each sculpture. Both sculptures are similar in shape because they are condensed into one solidified shape that is broken down into several different pieces. Sculpture one is made of four equal sized geometric shapes, while sculpture two is made up of two unequally sized organic shapes. Another difference in shape is that sculpture two has no holes in it, whereas sculpture one has giant parts of it that are cut out (the holes of the letters). One might speculate that the empty holes in sculpture one serve to represent the realm of possibility for personal interpretation.
All in all, these two works have a lot of similarities as well as differences that make them unique in their own way. The possible interpretations, feelings, and general shapes of these two sculptures clearly show how two things can be similar and yet entirely different. This just serves as a reminder to show that one should never come to conclusions so quickly, because everything is never as it seems.