Maya Angelou's “Letter to My Daughter”
The excerpt from “Letter to My Daughter,” by Maya Angelou is a section from her autobiography that talks about the many experiences she had over her lifetime. The excerpt mainly focuses on her childhood and teenage years. Angelou uses this book to share her knowledge and wisdom with her many “daughters”. Angelou uses a variety of rhetorical strategies in her writing to appeal to her audiences, such as the use of pathos, logos, imagery, anecdotes, structure, diction, and tone in order for them to learn from her experiences.
Maya Angelou’s directs this excerpt to her many “daughters.” By daughters, she is not talking about ones through blood relations but rather about women who read her works. During this part of her book, she mainly focuses on females who are still in their teens since the perspective she was writing from was that of own teen years. This makes her book more relatable to females since they could have gone through or experienced the same situation that she talks about. They may be able to relate to having female role models in their lives, such as their mother or grandmother, the struggles of being under pressure to have sex, and the hardships of being pregnant while in high school. Furthermore, the author writes this letter to not only talk about the hardships in her life but also its positive outcome. Angelou faced a number of challenges throughout the passages, which could have caused her to become anxious at times, but her story had a happy ending. At first, Angelou was worried to become a mother at such a young age, but by the end of the story, her son was the best thing that happened to her. Similarly, her audience may be depressed and troubled since they are facing the same hardships but do not see an end to these challenges. As a result, Angelou acts as a mother as she reassures her “daughters” with her happy ending that pain does not last forever and that everything works out in the end. She reassures them that everything will be fine. Consequently, the author is able to connect with her audience because of her experiences, as well as take care of them in a motherly way.
Throughout the excerpt, Angelou’s use of pathos appeals to the audience’s emotions to make them feel a certain way in order to understand her message. For example, in the passage where it says, “I left a note on his pillow saying, ‘Dad, I am sorry to bring disgrace to the family, but I have to tell you that I am pregnant’” (Angelou 28). With the use of pathos in this sentence, it gives the reader a sense of anxiety. This is because no one would want to bring the shame to their family for being pregnant while still in high school. This can be compared to Mary L. Shelton’s and Ronald R. Rogers’ journal, Fear-Arousing and Empathy-Arousing Appeals to Help: The Pathos of Persuasion, which elaborates on how the use of fear and empathy affect a person in a certain situation. Shelton and Rogers express their interpretation of empathy as a feeling that “bridges the gulf between the individual and society; it transforms another’s distress into our distress” (375). Without pathos in her writing Angelou would have books that are uninteresting to read. By incorporating pathos, she was able to create an emotional connection to her audience, which she can use have an impact on them.  Readers find the story more relatable, interesting, and realistic when pathos is used throughout the text.
Logos is either a statement, sentence, or argument that is used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or logic. Authors use this literary device to make readers try to comprehend the situation given. Maya Angelou uses the device during the “Revelations” section.  Specifically, the sentences, “A boy who lived up the street from me had been asking me to be intimate with him. I had refused for months. He was not my boyfriend. We were not even dating,” describe logos because Angelou used logic and reasoning to decide whether or not to have sex with her neighbor (Angelou 35). By logically expressing her thoughts, she made her audience think in her point of view and analyze that intercourse with her neighbor was not wise.  Her expression suggests that she thought of all the possible outcomes of having sex before making her decision. Through this example, the author put readers in her shoes with the use of logos.
In the excerpt, Angelou incorporates descriptive imagery in order to create visual pictures for the audience. One example of detailed imagery she uses is when she describes her mother and paternal grandmother: “My mother wore her straight hair in a severe stylish bob. My grandmother didn’t believe in hot curling women’s hair, so I had grown up with a braided natural. Grandmother turned our radio on to listen to the news, religious music, Gang Busters, and The Lone Ranger. In California, my mother wore lipstick and rouge and played loud blues music and jazz on a record player” (Angelou 20). Due to having a clear detailed image, the readers can picture some of the role models Angelou had while growing up.  These role models shaped her into the person who she is. Studies in Letty Chan’s article, “Facets of imagery in academic and professional achievements: A study of three doctoral students,” show that imagery should be vivid to interest audiences. The real imagery was shown to have an impact on the behavior of participants, and if expressed at the right level, will give the audience the feeling that the imagery is relevant and is incorporated from real life (Chan 119-123). By using imagery in her writing, Angelou was able to implant an image of what she sees into her audience’s mind. Through imagery, the audience gets a better understanding of what the author is trying to convey.
Maya Angelou made her message stronger in this excerpt of her book by expressing an experience she faced with which her readers can relate to. When authors start to tell a story about a certain event that happened it is called an anecdote.  This is exactly what Angelou did. For instance, she talks about having sexual relations with a boy who she barely knew. She did this since she thought, “It was during that time that I noticed my body’s betrayal. My voice became deep and husky, and my naked image in the mirror gave no intimations that it would ever become feminine and curvy. I was already six feet tall and had no breasts. I thought maybe if I had sex my recalcitrant body would grow up and behave as it was supposed to behave.” (Angelou 36-37). As a result of Angelou having her first sexual relation, she ended up pregnant. This is effective due to having teenage girls open their eyes to the consequences of having sex at an early age. Not only will they end up possibly getting pregnant, but there will be long-term consequences such as dropping out of school to take care of the child, financing the child’s needs, and ruining their reputation because they became a mother at such a young age. This specific anecdote by Angelou let her audience know that they are not alone. There are others who experience the same thing.
Another thing the author did during her anecdote was it provided an insight of her life as she was growing up. She had provided information about a brother who she believed was smarter than her, a grandmother named Annie Henderson, who she lived with and thought was “the picture of dignity,” and her mother (Angelou 5-20). By providing this sort of information in her autobiography, she was able to let readers know where she came from and what was going on during those years. The audience was able to know what Angelou’s life was like and learn about her personally. Consequently, by adding some background about herself, she gave her readers insight on how important people and events have shaped her into the person she is.  
Angelou had used a variety of techniques in order to structure her writing. She had written paragraphs that were short but straight to the point. Besides the paragraphs being short, she had sentences that were complex, which made the audience think more in-depth. Also, the paragraphs in the excerpt were broken down into sections called, “Home,” “Philanthropy,” “Revelations,” and “Giving Birth”. By dividing the paragraphs into sections, she could let the audience understand that her writing was in chronological order. This order is important because it shows the result of a certain situation. For instance, Angelou talks about how she tried to hide her pregnancy from her parents since she was so close to graduating from high school (Angelou 46). She had thought if her parents found out about the pregnancy they would be disappointed due to her being so young. Then she ultimately decided that it was time to tell them about since she was nearing her due date. At the end, Angelou realized that her mother was proud of her and that she never regretted being pregnant.
Diction is the choice and use of words and phrases in speech or writing. Diction’s purpose is to choose words which are more appropriate for the author's writing to incorporate a stronger meaning to sentences. For example, Angelou uses the words “sophisticated and worldly” instead of the words mature and street-smart to describe adults (Angelou 11). Another instance is when she uses “charitable” for the word generous (Angelou 29).  By using stronger vocabulary like those words, it brought a new light into her writing since it was used in a good way. Due to the vocabulary being used in a positive way in her writing, it lightened up the overall mood for the message she had. Angelou uses the positive words and lightened the mood in order to convey a more impactful message to her audience in her writing style.
Toward the end of the excerpt, Angelou showed a prideful tone, which created the overall mood in her writing. She starts to build the tone during the section “Revelation,” “Today, over forty years later, when I look at him and see the wonderful man he has become, the loving husband and father, the good poet and fine novelist, the responsible citizen and the world’s greatest son, I thank the Creator that he was given to me. The Revelation is that day, so long ago, was the greatest day of my life -- Hallelujah!” (Angelou 45). This connects to the last sentence of how she became proud of herself because it conveys that she found the light within her struggles. As the audience reads this excerpt, they start to realize that even though she had gone through some difficulties, at the end she showed nothing but accomplishment because she got the best gift of all, which was her son.
An author’s overall purpose in writing is to send a message to others. In the excerpt “Letter to My Daughter”, Maya Angelou uses several strategies in her writing to add some life and color for the audience while reading. Through the strategies, she was able to have her readers understand how she grew up and the events which shaped her into who she is. Angelou’s use of pathos, logos, imagery, anecdotes, structure, diction, and tone. These were some of the strategies that brought structure to her writing in order to get her message across. Without these strategies, readers would not understand her message as clearly. By her bringing in situations that were relatable to the audience, which was mostly directed toward women who are going through or already went through similar experiences. In order to show that they are not alone there are others who have been where you are. Since Maya Angelou had written this book for her many daughters in the world to learn from her experiences.


Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. “Excerpt: Letter to My Daughter.” Signature Reads. 9 July 2015.
       http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/. 
       Accessed 13 Sept. 2017.
Michael Magid and Letty Chan. “Motivating English learners by helping them visualise their 
Ideal L2 Self: lessons from two motivational programmes.”Innovation in Language Learning and Teaching Vol. 6 , Iss. 2 , 2012. http://removed-this-url.com/ Accessed 14 Sept. 2017.
Shelton, Mary Lou, and Ronald W. Rogers. “Fear‐Arousing and Empathy‐Arousing Appeals 
to Help: The Pathos of Persuasion.” Journal of Applied Social Psychology, vol. 11, no. 4, 1981, pp. 366–378. http://removed-this-url.com/ Accessed 14 Spet. 2017.
