Family Complex Relationships
	In Chimamanda Adichie’s Purple Hibiscus, the protagonist, Kambili and her younger brother lives a strict and privileged life. In Enugu, Nigeria, where they live, their father, Eugene is very well known as a businessman who is a publisher of the newspaper, Standard, an owner of a factory, and Catholic. On top of it all, he is very wealthy. In Enugu, Eugene is portrayed as a very well respected, loving, and caring man. He is very supportive to his community in Enugu and back at his hometown ABBA Town. However, inside of his home, he is portrayed as a different man. For the reason Eugene is Catholic, he is strict on his family and he have high expectations for them. He feels they should never fail or sin and if they do in anyway, he becomes physically abusive. Eugene feels that he has to abuse them for their own good. He does it to express that he loves them and does not want them to fail or sin. Eugene also does not have a good relationship with his father, Papa-Nnukwu because of his refusal to convert to Catholic. Papa-N, according to Eugene was a “heathen” and Eugene is strongly against “heathens”. In addition, he believes his father is a sinful human being and does not want Kambili and Jaja to have any interaction with him except when they are their hometown for Christmas break for only fifteen minutes. Although Eugene does not have good relations to his father, he does help out a lot towards the end of the novel.  In Adichie’s Purple Hibiscus, Eugene’s relationship with his family is complex because he abuses them but, he expresses his sorrow and love for them, he speaks bad on his father but, he pays for his funeral, and he portrays himself as an immortal man, but, was later defeated by death from his wife.
In Adichie’s novel, Eugene, as stated before, is very abusive to his family because he is strictly committed to his religion. Whatever he follows, Kambili, Jaja, and their mom must follow with no excuses. When he witnesses or finds out a “sinful” action has been taken, he tortures them physically. He later expresses how much he loves them and the reasons behind his painful actions. For example, when Eugene finds out that Kambili and Jaja has been in the same place as Papa-N at Eugene’s sister Ifeoma’s house, he becomes furious and gives them a serious consequence. He pours hot water on their feet once they got home. As Eugene is doing this he becomes emotional. According to Kambili, “His voice quavered now, like someone speaking at a funeral, choked with emotion.” (194). This is one incident that proves the complexity that Eugene has with his family. As he pours the water on her feet, he feels sorrow for his actions but also feels the need to do so in order to get rid of “sins” that are in Kambili. Another example is the painting that Kambili had of Papa-N. This painting was created and given by her cousin, Amaka. Right before Eugene finds out about the painting, Kambili and Jaja were looking at the painting. Eugene takes the painting and rips it up into pieces. Kambili then drops to the floor full of disappointment. According to Kambili, Eugene tells hers “Get up! Get away from that painting! I lay there, did nothing. Get Up! Papa said again. I still did not move. He started to kick me. The metal buckles on his slippers stung like bites from giant mosquitoes.” Kambili felt that painting was a special gift to her from Amaka and to witness it torn into pieces has crushed her. Eugene, being the person, he is, sees it as there are sins inside of her. After her refusal of getting up, he becomes abusive. Eugene became so abusive that Kambili had to be rushed to the hospital. He nearly beat her to death. After waking up, she notices that her father is emotional again. According to Kambili, “I could tell that his eyes were soft, and that he was speaking and crying at the same time. My precious daughter. Nothing will happen to you”. (pg 212) After nearly beating Kambili to death, Eugene becomes very emotional and he expresses his sorrow to her by stating “nothing will happen to you”. Just like Eugene, plenty of other men who have children feels the need to show tough love because they expect more from their children. According to author Glenn Stanton, in his article The Involved Father, “Father's love more dangerously because their love is more expectant, more instrumental than a mother's love.” (para 2). When a father shows love for their children, they are tough because their expectations for their children are higher than a mother’s expectations for them. Father’s also tend to love harder to help them learn their way of living.
In addition to his religion, Eugene does not have a good relationship with his father, Papa-N because he believes his father does not worship God and he refused to convert to Catholic. Eugene actions and use of language towards his father demonstrates that he wants nothing to do with him and he does not want his family to have anything to do with him either. Eugene’s sister, Ifeoma takes care of Papa-N and checks up on him often unlike Eugene. Although he does not check up on him, he does send money to him through his personal driver, Kevin.  According to Kambili, “Papa himself never greeted Papa-N, never visited him, but he sent slim wads of naira through Kevin or through one of our umunna members.” (pg 62). Papa does not physically check up on Papa-N because he feels being in his presence will also make him come in contact with his sins. He does on the other hand, make sure he is ok by sending some money for his necessities and whatever he tends to use the money for. During Christmas break, the family went to their hometown, where Papa-N lives. Every Christmas break, as stated before, Jaja and Kambili were allowed to visit Papa-N but for a limited of time. Before Kambili and Jaja leave, Papa always tell them “Kambili and Jaja, you will go this afternoon to your grandfather’s house and greet him. Kevin will take you. Remember, don’t touch any food, don’t drink anything. And, as usual, you will stay not longer than fifteen minutes. Fifteen minutes.” (Pg. 61). Papa does not allow them to receive much from Papa-N’s house because Eugene does not want them walking around with sins. Later in the novel, Papa-N dies because of old age. When Ifeoma explains the situation, Eugene had an idea of giving Papa-N a Catholic funeral or otherwise he will not participate. Since Ifeoma was hosting the Funeral, and Papa-N was not a Catholic, she did not like that idea and decided to have a Pagan funeral. Heathens, like Papa-N falls under this religion. Although, Eugene did not come to the funeral, he does pay for the entire plus extra money which was very surprising. While the family are having lunch at the table, Eugene states “I sent Ifeoma money for the funeral. I gave her all she needed”. They were happy and according to Kambili “Thanks be to God, Mama said, and Jaja and I repeated her”. (pg. 198). They were happy that Eugene paid for his father’s funeral because if he had decided not to help, Ifeoma would not know what to because she was not wealthy like Eugene.  Although, Eugene and Papa-N did not have the best father son relationship, he was kind enough to pay for his funeral because he is, and will always be his father. 
Moreover, Eugene was abusive to his wife just like he was abusive to his children. In fact, she was being abused more than the children. His wife, Beatrice, was pregnant with their third child in which she later lost because of domestic violence. Eugene did not know she was pregnant and she has planned on telling him when the time was right but, it became too late. The children were away during that time and Beatrice has stopped by Ifeoma house and tells the situation. “You know that small table where we keep the family Bible, nne? Your father broke it on my belly. My blood finished on that floor even before he took me to St. Agnes, my doctor said there was nothing he could do to save it.” (pg. 248). There was no reason given on why he had done such thing but this is what caused her to have her miscarriage. She was very upset telling the story. She has also told them, “I was six weeks gone. It is true. Eugene did not know, I had not yet told him, but it is true” (pg. 249).  She was six weeks pregnant and what Eugene has done has killed the baby. Towards the end of the novel, Eugene was found dead lying on his desk at his job. The cause of his death was poison that Beatrice has been putting in his tea. An autopsy was done on Eugene and Beatrice has explain to the children that poison was found his body. The children were confused at first until she explained the story. “I started putting the poison in his tea before I came to Nsukka. Sisi got it for me; her uncle is a powerful witch doctor.” (pg. 290). Everyone, including his own children thought of Eugene to be immortal and that he would never die. He was defeated by his own wife, someone that was least expected to have killed him.       
In conclusion, Eugene’s abusive ways to his family and sorrowness after he committed his cruel actions; his mean thoughts and words about his father and his kindness for paying for his funeral; and his immortal demeanor that he carried which ended up being defeated in silence by his own wife are why he have a complex relationship with his family. Since Eugene was a strictly religious man, this could be part of the reason why he is the person he is. he is strongly against failure and sins and he does not allow to his family to fail or sin under any circumstances. He has the highest of all highest expectations for them that can be possibly impossible. If any of them was to reach below his expectations, he would abuse them, sometimes almost to death and then takes them to the hospital filled with emotion. Just like Eugene, they may be plenty of other fathers who are just as religious and as strict as Eugene. As a general statement, fathers show tough love to their children and expect more from them then mothers. Eugene did not want no relation with because he would not convert to Eugene's religion, Catholic. When he finds out his father dies, it can be said that he may have felt upset because although they did not communicate or have visits, Papa-N was still Eugene’s dad and he makes an outstanding decision and pays for his funeral. And far as his immortality demeanor, it was proven, by his beloved wife that he was not so immortal after all. Eugene was loved dearly by his family but, his complexity with them and their relationships, can be confusing to those who read the novel.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


















Works Cited

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi, 1977-. Purple Hibiscus. Chapel Hill, N.C.: Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2012 Print. 
Stanton, Glenn. The Involved Father. https://www.focusonthefamily.com/parenting/parenting-roles/the-involved-father/fathers-matter. Accessed 2, Nov. 2017
