College Stress
Many people today will look at higher education as one of the opportunity for a better life when it comes to finding better jobs, earning more, or just having better opportunities in life. Which of course all of these things plus more are all true. What people fail to look at though is how stress caused by college negatively affects the mental health of many college students. Stress is any situation that evokes negative thoughts and feelings in a person. As time passes students are having to put themselves through more school work and harder classes to meet the standards of employers and compete with other students for the same jobs or internships. In addition to that, the stress families can put on students can be just as much if not more put on the student. It can be stressful for students trying to meet the expectations of their family because they may not want to feel like a disappointment to them by not doing as well as expected. Stress in students is usually caused by abundant and strenuous class work. The stress of college on students also negatively affects their physical health when students choose to fall in to alcohol or drug addictions to help cope with the negative emotions that they are feeling. Many research studies have shown how stress from college work has negatively affected students.
	Although stress is not overlooked it is also not discussed and addressed as well as it should be considering how many students are negatively affected by it. The reason it may not seem as serious as it really is may be because many students fail to address their stress. Stress is any situation that evokes negative feelings and thoughts in a person. They are unaware of the symptoms and attempt to just keep going with their daily lives without not knowing what is really going on. To better understand how college work mentally affects students a study was conducted to see who it is affecting and how it was affecting them. In the article “Depression, Anxiety and Academic Stress Among College Students” by Vijay Mahadeorao Bhujade she conducted research over 3 years to further examine how stress affects students in college and what they go through. She found that college students experience stress from having to move away from home for the first time or adjusting to the new challenges that college possesses that were not there before when they were in high school.  When students start their transition into college they start to face more competition whether it is to do better or as good as other students or the pressure to do well for your parents (Bhujade 748). This all puts on stress because they are afraid to slip up and not meet the expectations set by their parents. Parents who went to college and have children in college may not understand what their children are experiencing. The reason for this is that students now face more challenges than they did decades ago. Colleges and employers have greater demands than they once did before. Also, when students view college differently they react to the changes differently. For example, when students tend to view college as a challenge, the stress doesn’t affect them too badly. But when they look at it as a threat to them, stress can make them feel helpless and loss. In this case the stress can then negatively affect them mentally (Bhujade 750). It is important that colleges create more awareness to the stress that is causing to their students if they want them to be able to succeed better in their studies. When students are stressed they are less likely to be able to focus in class, it is harder for them to study, and it is harder for them to remember things. Emotionally for these students they get angry for minor things, depressed, and they may start to feel useless. Resources like counseling centers should be created in order to help students and teachers be able to identify and address the mental health of the students that are suffering as a result of the work and stress they are encountering. 
	When students are not utilizing the resources that are given to them to help them with their stress they may try to turn to drugs or alcohol to help cope with their problems and stress. The reason for them to do so is that drugs and alcohol help to relieve the pain that they are feeling but the problem is that the solution to their problems is only temporary and not just that but it is detrimental to their health. Considering how the effect of drugs and alcohol is only temporary they go back and back for more to help them feel better so that they do not have to feel the stress of college. In the article “The Role of Mental Illness in Alcohol Abuse and Prescription Drug Misuse: Gender-Specific Analysis of College Students” written by Celia Lo she conducted research to examine how college students misuse drugs and alcohol and how that is related to mental illness and to a lack of mental health care. They conducted this study by gathering data of 5,241 full time college students who participated in the 2010 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. Their findings concluded that the relation between alcohol abuse and mental illness was more prevalent among females than it was with males. When they did the study they looked at the use prescribed drugs that were not prescribed to them. The reason for people to resort prescription drugs in their time of stress is because when they think of prescription drugs they may think that they are safer to use than illegal drugs due to the fact that they are prescribed by doctors. But that is not the case. They are can become addictive and they are very potent which can lead to overdoses when taking recklessly. When they engage in routine use of these prescription drugs they start to gain a dependency on the pills causing problems in their life because then they start to focus more on when the next time they will be able to get pills. This then inhibits them from getting the education they should be getting because they are being distracted from their school work. The college experience is something that is not being experienced anywhere else as it comes with many new challenges that students do not expect. One thing that some people do not realize is that in college, drugs and alcohol are commonly used. For some students the use of drugs and or alcohol reflects their new independence that they are gaining after leaving their home and away from their parents’ rules. Those that exhibited depression within the last year were shown to initiate a pattern of drug use or alcohol. They were also able to find that those that women were less likely to abuse alcohol than men but they are more shown to more commonly abuse drugs and are more common to have a mental illness. To better help and address their needs to cope with the stress alternatives to drugs and alcohol should be given to them. For example, they can learn new hobbies to occupy their time and relive their stress. Also, to help deter them from wanting to continue abusing the drugs and alcohol they can be shown what the effects are of what they are using. Some students just do not know what drugs and alcohol are doing to them and what the consequences are because they only want to acknowledge the positive things it does for them. 



Works Cited
Bhujade, Vijay Mahadeorao. "Depression, Anxiety and Academic Stress among College Students: A Brief Review." Indian Journal of Health & Wellbeing, vol. 8, no. 7, July 2017, pp. 748-751. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=125123631&site=ehost-live.

Lo, Celia C., et al. "The Role of Mental Illness in Alcohol Abuse and Prescription Drug Misuse: Gender-Specific Analysis of College Students." Journal of Psychoactive Drugs, vol. 45, no. 1, Jan-Mar2013, pp. 39-47. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/02791072.2013.763561.
