
 Enhancing Video Conferencing Netiquette in the Business Environment
	In the realm of business, verbal as well as non-verbal communication are necessary components that allow businesses to interact and network with one another. With the rise in technology, many businesses are putting much importance into digital communication through emails, webinars, broadcasts, and other interactive tools as the primary means of communicating with one another across the country and foreign countries. Many business managers and leaders are emphasizing the need for a rise in video conferencing over audio conferencing because video conferencing encompasses the closeness and engagement connection that business employees receive when communicating face-to-face. However, a number of business employees are stating that their previous institutions did not teach them how to communicate and behave in video conferences. When it comes to interacting with other businesses via digital conferencing, many businesses have oversimplified the importance of providing their employees with substantial knowledge of the different communication cues, such as the appropriate body language, to acquire when networking with other businesses. If these factors aren’t fully addressed, business will have to deal with misinterpretations, less productivity, and a lack of trust within their business reputation.  As a result, businesses should invest in adequate video conferencing equipment and train their employees on how to properly communicate verbally and nonverbally through video conferences.
	Every career in business, whether it be finance, marketing, or international business requires that employees acquire professional mannerism and exhibit proper body language when communicating with their co-workers, employers, or other business firms. Thus, the same expectations should be met when interacting in video conferences. In the article, “How to Walk Your Talk: Effective Use of Body Language for Business Professionals”, Amit and Ajit Kumar Kar stated that “body movements and gestures are unconscious forms of expression and have a language of their own” (1). They point out that keeping good eye contact, standing straight, smiling, refraining from making nervous gestures, and dedicating attention to the person speaking demonstrates respect and interest in others. The authors argue that it is important for everyone to have a clear understanding of appropriate body language because it reduces mixed messages, provides a positive first impression, creates a connection with others more easily, and allows business professionals to reveal their true emotions (6-7). Since there is freedom to multitask on a computer, many workers do not realize that poor eye contact is noticeable when their eyes are shifting across screens, which can reveal to the other person that they are not paying close attention to what they have to say. Thus, workers should learn to be attentive in order to not look disrespectful to the business speaker. Aside from being an audience member and hearing what the other businesses are saying through the webcam, employees should have a consistent tone of voice and pitch when speaking. They should be trained in learning to have an extranporeanous speaking style to inform or persuade the client or business partner. Communicating and practicing these cues through video will make the workers feel more comfortable and natural when placed in front of a camera. As a result, applying suitable body language when televising themselves to the camera will make the workers look more interested in what the business is proposing.
Although displaying proper body language via telepresence is critical, it is equally important for the employees to learn how to gain the trust of the individuals they are talking to in video conferences by acknowledging the different business cultures and language barriers. Since it is difficult to contact businesses across different countries because of the distance barrier, business meetings through video can reduce productivity if the workers are unaware of the language the other business speaks. For example, in the article, “In the Shadow: the Impact of Language on Structure, Power and Communication in the Multinational”, Rebecca Marschan-Piekkari, Denice Welch, and Lawrence Welch point out that “the more two cultures differ, the more demanding it will be for members from these cultures to understand each other, thereby increasing the risk of communication problems” (6). They argue that language barriers constrain the ability to build horizontal relationships; thus, impacting the firm’s pace of international expansion (15). With businesses trying to globalize, being able to connect and build a trusting relationship with other business nationalities can be chaotic when businesses don’t share a native language. Before businesses try to partner with others, it is important for them to be proactive and educate their workers on how to behave when in presence of other cultures. Failure to try to communicate with other countries can be disrespectful and can impede a partnership or collaboration. The business that studies and adopts the language or even hires an interpreter to be with them while video conferencing will allow the business to make sure there are no dissociations between one another and increase productivity in the limited time they have to meet, especially since the time zones are different across the state and countries. Once the businesses have a mutual understanding of one another, even if they are thousands of miles apart, they can view each other through video allowing them to gain that intrapersonal trust that is essential within the business atmosphere.
Granted that addressing appropriate body language and language barriers are necessary, it is crucial to have the proper technological equipment for the video business meeting as well as teaching the business employees how to adapt to each setting. Peter Kauff and Oliver Schreer stress the importance of video conferencing in the article, “An Immersive 3D Video-Conferencing System Using Shared Virtual Team User Environments”, when they argue that the main objective of a shared virtual table environment, SVTE, is to portray rich communication modalities as similar to real face-to-face meetings by exhibiting gaze awareness, realistic images, and correct sound direction (2). They provide examples of different SVTE approaches such as tele-cubicles, 3D video streams,  Virtual Team User Environments, and MPEG-4 multimedia standards which provide open and flexible system architectures. Depending on the quantity of the participants, these video conferencing systems allow participants to correctly observe who is speaking to who and minimizes problems associated with bandwidth and visual disparities (6-7). With technological problems readily happening, investing in high quality technology will make the video conferencing seem more natural and simulate a real life face-to-face conversation. It will be unfortunate if an important deal was taking place and the video decided to have a static background and the sound was to disappear. Businesses emphasize the need of collaborating and inclusion for everyone, but if the setting of the video conference neglects the the inclusion of an employer to voice their input, it will make them feel excluded. Therefore, businesses should utilize the appropriate conference setting to capture all angles of the employees interacting in the meeting and have an organized speaking turn, as to reduce confusion of various people speaking all at once. 
Some businesses may argue that setting time off of the daily work hours to engage in something other than the business curriculum can affect the productivity and decrease total revenue for the company. Although time will be taken off of the company’s production hours, the total time spent training the employees to learn how to properly communicate and engage during a videoconference is minimal compared to the amount of business meetings that take place on video conferences. This also doesn’t account for the partnerships and deals that may be made during these meetings. To be more specific, in the article, “Videoconferencing”, David Green and Kathleen J. Hansell surveyed business enterprises to view the effects of video conferencing on various meeting-and travel-related variables and found that “seventy percent of the respondents reported increased personal productivity as a result of using video conferencing” (4). The authors argue that the reasons behind this percentage was a result of less travel, faster decisions, more effective meetings, and improved responsiveness to market opportunities (4-5). Video conferencing reduces travel expenses and costs while increasing productivity which allows businesses to globalize and make a profit within their business. Therefore, the money spent on traveling to other locations could be spent on investing in high quality video conferencing equipment that could be used to connect with other businesses. Sooner or later employees will have to engage in these digital business meetings and being trained and aware of how to behave will increase the work rate for the firm. Overall, the opportunity cost of investing the time and money for properly training the business employees is minimal compared to making effective connections. 
Technically speaking, video conferencing requires more than simply showing a person’s face, it requires workers to know all the cues to work towards the common goal of the firm. It is important for anyone working in the business industry to be professional and have knowledge of the different forms of communication when speaking especially when they want to form business relationships with other businesses internationally. Aside from professionally communicating face-to-face, being known for effective digital communication through video conferences puts a business at an advantage over other corporations that lack these proper skills. In general, businesses develop different strategies to create a positive reputation for their business; therefore, strengthening the video conferencing skills of the business employees will increase their reputation. Creating an atmosphere of group rapport is difficult online, but if every business improves their digital communication skills, especially video conferencing online,  it will improve the degree of mutual understanding and keep dispersed teams connected and aligned.

	

















Works Cited 

Green, David and Kathleen J. Hansell. "Videoconferencing." Business Horizons, vol. 27, no. 6, 
Nov/Dec84, p. 57. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=4529006&site=ehost-live. Accessed 18 November 2017. 

Kar, Amit Kumar, and Ajit Kumar Kar. "How to Walk Your Talk: Effective Use of Body 
Language for Business Professionals." IUP Journal of Soft Skills 11.1 (2017): 16. Accessed 15 November 2017.

Kauff, Peter, and Oliver Schreer. "An immersive 3D video-conferencing system using shared 
virtual team user environments." Proceedings of the 4th international conference on Collaborative virtual environments. ACM, 2002. Accessed 16 November 2017. 

Marschan-Piekkari, Rebecca, Denice Welch, and Lawrence Welch. "In the shadow: The impact 
of language on structure, power and communication in the multinational." International Business Review 8.4 (1999): 421-440. Accessed 16 November 2017.
