Neat People Care



The author of “Neat vs. Sloppy People” compares two different lifestyles. Suzanne Britt contrast these day to day life styles by describing neat people life style as the complete opposite of what it would normally be. She refers neat people to be carless and thoughtless because of the things they tend to throw away and not keep, unlike sloppy people are caring by not getting rid of things that causes clutter. These meanings for Britt are totally different than an average person would think. However, this article is a big misunderstanding when Britt defines neat people as lazy and meaner than sloppy people. Neatness is a way to understand how much he/she care about things in their life because of organization, time management and caring about your financial needs. 



Organization is good for an individual’s health physically and mentally. In Suzanne Britt article, she explains that sloppy people make a clutter is a positive thing but an examination drove by relate educator Nicole R. Keith, Ph.D., look into researcher and found that individuals with clean houses are more advantageous than individuals with muddled houses. Americans between the ages of 49 and 65, a statistic known to be at an expanded hazard for coronary illness. “Participants who kept their homes clean were healthier and more active than those who didn’t” (Ralph Ryback). Individuals who keep their homes clean were more advantageous and more dynamic than the individuals who don’t. 



	Cleaning can take up so much time for an individual who doesn’t stay neat because they could be looking for something they need but having so much clutter collected up can take up all that time, unlike someone who is neat knows exactly where they place their belonging with no struggle of getting to it. “How are you supposed to keep up with your , your family and your hobbies if you’re spending all of your time cleaning?” (Ralph Ryback) Neat people have better time management than sloppy people, taking time to clean because everything is misplaced can waste value time do other activities. 



	Neat people take good care of their homes and the stuff they buy for their homes. If sloppy people hoarder a lot of things, they could really care less about their homes. Why not take care of something you’re paying for like the home you live in. Being neat shows that you care for your financial needs, if your hoarding every object that comes in your house it can cause, dirt and pest or you can even lose your home. Also, if your sloppy how do you even manage to keep a job to help your financial needs. “Sloppy work can damage a person's career, a team's morale, and even an organization's success.” (Mind Tools Content Time). Most managers would not like a sloppy employee, this shows disrespect and carless of the area you work in. 



I come to conclusion that Suzanne Britt tries to make the reader have a different view between these two lifestyles. Trying to change these two meaning between neat people and sloppy people wasn’t understandable. Neat people have organization, time management, and take care of their financial needs. 









































Works Cited 



“"Neat People vs Sloppy People" analysis.” Topics, Sample Papers & Articles Online for Free, 



27 Feb. 2018,

 

studymoose.com/neat-people-vs-sloppy-people-analysis-essay.





Ryback, Ralph. “The Powerful Psychology Behind Cleanliness.” Psychology Today, Sussex 

Publishers, 11 July 2016, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-truisms- wellness/201607/the-powerful-psychology-behind-cleanliness.

“Dealing with Sloppy Work: Overcoming Careless Habits in Your Team.” Management Skills 



From MindTools.Com, www.mindtools.com/pages/article/dealing-with-sloppy-work.htm.







