Hope for Third World Countries 
Imagine a child infected with a deadly disease and dying because the child has no access to proper healthcare. Due to the fact the nearest doctor is miles away and the only way to get there is to walk for days. It is hard to imagine it with all of the access to doctors America has, but in third world countries it is normal to them. Doctor Raj Panjabi’s presentation, “No one should die because they lie to far from a doctor,” passionately demonstrates why the medical system needs to be reformed and how his journey began to expose the need for doctors or medical professionals in remote areas of the world. By his use of the rhetorical appeals:  pathos, ethos, and logos he was successful reaching out to his intended audience who are doctors and people who want to make a change by using all three of the rhetorical appeals during his TED talk. By creating emotional connections, building up his credibility, and explaining why his project is logical. 

	Raj Panjabi mainly focuses on pathos on the beginning part of his talk, to show the audience who he is as a person and create an emotional connection with them. Panjabi starts by giving a background on his childhood and how his family had to leave his home country Liberia during the civil war of 1989. His family had to immigrate to the United States of America for safety from the rebel army. Leaving all of his friends, family, and home behind for their own safety. (Panjabi 00:1:00-00:2:00). His difficult childhood creates an atmosphere of sympathy, because it lays the foundation for who he is as a person. Later on, in the talk he gives the audience intimate details about how his wife and another woman in Liberia were both in their third pregnancy. The only difference between these two women is that his wife had all the medical attention and medications needed for her pregnancy, while the Liberian woman had only natural village remedies for hers—not even a sanitary place to give birth (Panjabi 00:18:39-00:19:23). Comparing his wife’s pregnancy to the woman in Liberia, shows the struggles of the Liberian people, and how normal it is to not have medical care unless they travel for days to the nearest doctor. Through Panjabi’s use of the rhetorical appeal pathos, he allows the audience to know vulnerable information about him, opening him up to the audience which allows for a personal connection.

	In addition, Panjabi builds up his credibility by talking about his personal experiences in Liberia as a child and as an adult. Panjabi discuses about how he went back to Liberia after immigrating to the United States, and he found the “war only left them with fifty-one doctors to serve a country of four million people” (00:2:54-00:3:43), and that was unacceptable to him. Panjabi felt a personal need and guilty to help the people he and his family left behind when he was a child, due to the fact that he was able to escape the war without being harmed. This specific example shows how Panjabi eye witnessed the lack of medical help and that he was not just making assumptions about the needs of the third world to the audience. Panjabi’s credibility continues to build because he points out all the flaws within the health care system. Panjabi points out that “[The] health care system is structured in such a way that the work of diagnosing disease and prescribing medicines is limited to a team of nurses and doctors… but the nurses and doctors are concentrated in cities, so rural communities like Musu’s have been left behind” (Panjabi 00:5:07). These examples of Panjabi building up his credibility pertain to the rhetorical appeal ethos, which allows the audience to trust what he is delivering to them in his presentation. 
	Starting a campaign that provided medical knowledge to people in third world countries sounds impossible to many people, but Panjabi demonstrates that what he is doing is logical (logos). To prove his project is logical and easy to help out with, he explains how at his wedding, he and his wife decided to not receive traditional wedding gifts, but instead asked their guests to make a donation so they could have money to start up their foundation. They ended up raising six thousand dollars and launched their non-profit organization called Last Mile Health (Panjabi 00:6:08-00:6:29). Panjabi demonstrates that even the littlest idea can have the biggest impact because he came up with an idea that was so easy to do and ask for help with. Raj Panjabi had received one wish he could have granted by TED because he won the 2017 TED prize and he asked for TED to help him and the audience develop the largest community health revolution by donating money, educating the public, volunteering, and, in any way that they could help (Panjabi 00:15:51-00:17:36). Panjabi gave the audience many ways that they can help his foundation provide medical assistance to places that need it and it showed that it was almost effortless to help out. As Panjabi gives examples that his project is not complex or difficult to help out with, he helps the audience know that they are able to help and that they do not need a medical degree to aid assistance to the people in third world countries. 
	Raj Panjabi’s life goal is to help out third world countries who suffer from diseases and sicknesses that could have been easily prevented or treated. Panjabi uses the three rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos to further his argument to help aid these countries with basic medical knowledge. Panjabi uses the audience’s emotions to help create a personal connection between them to allow a certain level of trust to be present. After this connection is established, he builds up his credibility to allow the audience to trust what he was telling them and that his information was correct and not just assumption. Lastly, Panjabi’s use of logos called the audience to take action and gave the them ambition and desire to make a change and help his non-profit grow and reach out to more countries that are in dire need of help. The use of his rhetorical appeals helps Panjabi’s presentation expose how the medical system needs to be reformed and it needs to happen now. 




















Works cited

Panjabi, Raj. “No one should die because they live too far from a doctor.” Ted April 2017, https://www.ted.com/talks/raj_panjabi_no_one_should_die_because_they_live_too_far_from_a_doctor#t-65818. Accessed 27 August 2017.
