
Delving into Maya Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter” from a Rhetorical Perspective
Reflecting and analyzing one’s own life creates wisdom that can be used as advice for others whom may be struggling through life’s obstacles and needing this wisdom to help them surpass these difficulties they are facing. Often times, authors have the liberty to voice their wisdom whether it be through literature, poetry, and visual arts and do so incorporating rhetorical strategies in their works. In the excerpt from “Letter to My Daughter”, Maya Angelou uses a wide range of rhetorical devices to encourage women from all over the world to have courage to view life in a positive manner and turn those negative aspects in their life to positive ones. A combination of ethos, pathos, symbolism, imagery, diction, and tone allowed her to express to her audience of women the struggles she went through in life to get to where she is today, a well known American poet and author. Sharing her experiences growing up with her grandmother, adjusting to her new life with her mother, and giving birth to her son were the turning points in her life that let her to view herself as a charitable person and develop wisdom to see life with courage. 
For the most part, Angelou establishes credibility in her book by writing in first person, incorporating many specific details of her life experiences, and going in depth about her intellectual thoughts as a teenager. For example, Angelou defines her character when she mentions the time her mother was trying to convince her to smile after she noted how uncomfortable she must have felt accustoming to her new home in California. The moment Angelou smiled it made her mother smile; and at that instant, she felt like a giver and titled herself as charitable because that was the first time in her life that she felt like she could provide happiness for another person with a simple gesture (4-5). Through this insightful anecdote, she presents herself with a sincerity which makes her reliable and worthy of listening to throughout her book. The fact that Angelou wrote this book at eighty years old made her be a reliable source to her audience of women because of the years of experience she went through. Out of all the years of experiences she could have included in her letter, she selectively captured the main events of her teenage years and was sure to include as much knowledge as she could provide. In essence, the events that she described were chosen for a reason, validating her purpose for writing this book. Adding on to this credibility, in his article, “The Roots of Research in (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications”, Ülkü D. Demırdöğen provides background information on Aristotle’s analysis of ethos and states that according to Aristotle “Nonverbal messages… as well as reputation and the way he [the speaker] delivered his speech”  were all key components of ethos (192). The reputation of Angelou as a civil rights activist and American poet and writer are main characteristics that enhance this rhetorical appeal. In addition, the way an author delivers their work whether it be through speeches, politics, performances, or through visual arts allows the audience to see if they are being authentic. It is up to the author to bring upon the most effective strategies to make a strong argument and convince the audience to believe something or in the case of Angelou, to encourage women to trust her wisdom of life and see her as a trustworthy source . 
In a similar fashion, Angelou integrates pathos throughout her book in order to activate her audience's emotions and motivate women to respond a certain way. In the beginning of the excerpt, Angelou addresses the topic of home and what home really means to her, which is a place where we all belong and does not take into account its literal geographical meaning (2). Regarding the topic of home evokes strong emotions to the individual because everyone has their own definition of home whether it be a literal place that conveys negativity or positivity to the individual or a figure of speech regarding the feeling that home brings to people. In this case, she uses home as a representation of one’s comfort zone and a place where one is safe; and thus, hints to women across the world that there are many unknown things that lie ahead of their comfort zone. The same way Angelou’s grandmother made veer away from her safe zone in Arkansas and live with her mother in California, Angelou is now passing on this wisdom of not being afraid to try change to women. This emotional appeal of advice is meant to encourage women to live life without fear and experience life away from their comfort zone. Using pathos can be an effective means for those who do not take into consideration the appeal to authority and the logical appeal. Therefore, by targeting the women’s emotions, Angelou was able to capture the attention of women who take persuasion through feelings into high regard. 
To better grasp her audience's attention, Angelou uses symbolism when she regards her paternal grandmother, who raised her growing up, as a “picture of dignity” (3). Symbolizing her grandmother as dignity allows the reader to see the way Angelou admires her grandmother as a respected figure in her life. Viewing her grandmother as a strong person allowed Angelou to respect her own self worth and develop a noble character. The in depth symbolic meaning of how she portrays her grandmother can be a  useful tool of persuasion because it relates to the women whom also have had a role model in their life that has played a major role in the way they have been raised into the person they are today. Symbolism creates an emotional stir and allows the audience to connect to the thoughts of Angelou and analyze the message she is trying to send to women: to view to the positive figures in their life that have guided them through their life endeavors. The use of symbolism allows women to captivate the deeper meaning Angelou is hinting at them throughout her book. 
To enforce her message, Angelou illustrates with vivid detail her revelation, or turning peak, of the when she changed her perspective in life using imagery as support. When depicting the day of Revelation from the bible, Angelou uses striking adjectives to illustrate how the “earth shuddered as trains thundered up and down...:” (5). The vivid scenario she described was meant to allow her audience to envision what she felt living in her city when she was sixteen years old. In this case, women are able to infer that Angelou must have felt very uneasy of her life and her place in it because of the negativity that was occurring in the earth. This imagery and connection allows her audience to envision a situation in which they felt they did not belong and everything seemed to be out of control, and the only thing they could do about it is to reinvent their life or create change in there life to better themselves. Angelou did just that making sure to provide more imagery to depict the day she gave birth to her son, with her encouraging mother right next to her showing how proud she was of her. This imagery at the end of her book makes a strong impact to the readers because that is the last thing they read; providing a vivid mental picture in their brains, making it memorable to the women reading it. Women will be able to relate to her because a majority of the women have also given birth like Angelou and since she only gave birth to a son, she wanted to address her audience of women whom may have experienced the feeling of seeing their son or daughter for the first time. The use of imagery is similar to reliving this impactful moment one has experienced or gives the audience the ability to recreate a similar scenario in their lives. Likewise, imagery is one of the key aspects that poets use when writing poetry and the impact it creates is seen in the article “Figurative Language and Stylistic Function in J.P. Clark-Bekederemo’s Poetry” written by Ebi Yeibo. Yeibo mentions Eyoh, a scholar, who notes the influence imagery has in poetry and highlights that mental and imaginative faculties and feelings are key aspects in a work of art (3). If an author takes the time to enrich the words they use when sending out their message, they are able to authenticate their character and the background of the poet writing this poetic work. Like poetry, a writer’s strategic style and use of rhetorical strategies helps improve their writing by creating these sensory experiences that allow the reader to to experience what is being described, a main purpose to Angelou’s message.
At the same time, Angelou is effective at using diction and tone to captivate the essence of what she is trying to convey to women all over the world. Authors use figurative language such as metaphors, hyperboles, and similes to help them create a speaking style that is most comfortable to them and allows readers to view the writer’s feeling toward their literary work.  An example of the unique style that Angelou portrays is noted with her use of strong diction when trying to express to women the stereotype she faced growing up, using hyperboles such as “demoting” and “licence” to emphasize that black people were seen as inferior to white people ( 2). Instead of using indifferent words and speaking her mind in a neutral manner, Angelou made sure to include intense words that would allow the reader to infer the injustice she was facing. Therefore, the feeling of inferiority she felt growing up was very visible to her audience and allowed her to create a candid tone that allowed Angelou to hint to her audience the change she needed to have in her life. The author’s selective diction and candid tone allows women to see the courage she had to express her internal feelings and motivate them to neglect the injustice and negative matters going on in their life. Angelou writes through her words making sure to speak to her audience with authenticity which produces a greater effect on women reading her book. On the contrary, if Angelou had been stern and had a direct tone when writing , the readers reading her book may be intimidated by her. Being careful to not be too direct but still make her point is a crucial aspect to her work. In connection to the various ways to create a set tone, in the article, “Vico on Metaphor”, Ferald J. Bryan bases his article on Vico, an Italian rhetorician, focused on metaphors and analyzed metaphorical phrases with a new perspective. Vico analyzed different cultures and noted that despite the different mental languages people use in their cultures, metaphorical phrases help create a mental vocabulary that is understood by all of the nations and scholars (259).  Once people become accustomed to using metaphorical language with others, they are able to comprehend what the others are trying to communicate with them. This is an important aspect to take into consideration when authors add words or phrases because if the audience does not understand what an author is trying to communicate, then the author failed at getting their point across. Angelou took note of the mental vocabulary used among women and made sure to use a variety of figurative language and selective diction to better connect to women. Therefore, the tone and diction Angelou had were powerful components that allowed women to view her personality through writing. 
Above all, analyzing the strategies and devices the Maya Angelou used to write her letter proved to be effective because every detail  and every anecdotal story of her life that she incorporated into her book played a major role in encouraging women to accept themselves first and then learn to accept all of the events that can take place in one’s life. Although Angelou makes clear note to not clearly give directions or tell women how to live their life, she does make sure to allow these strategies in her writing to suggest to women to be confident , do good for humanity, and if something wrong is going on in life make the effort to employ changes in their life. These same rhetorical devices that Angelou used in her book can be seen outside of the literacy side and seen through visual aids that we encounter on a daily, such as advertisements on tv and labels on companies. For instance, advertisers use ethos by stating that they are the best company in town; and they use pathos by including imagery through visual pictures and the phrases they use to target our emotions and persuade us to buy their product. Without enhancing their product with rhetorical strategies, their target audience may not respond the way the advertisers wanted them to. Like these advertisers, Maya Angelou's use of  rhetorical strategies plays a major role when presenting her wisdom and advice to women. 
Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. “Excerpt: Letter to My Daughter.” Signature Reads, 9 July 2015, 
www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 12 September 2017.

Bryan, Ferald J. “Vico on Metaphor: Implications for Rhetorical Criticism.” Philosophy & 
Rhetoric, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 255-265.,
web.a.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=0&sid=3a6485b9-7bfe-4f32-966b-3971d5f4f29b%40sessionmgr4007&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=16182753&db=ufh. Accessed 15 September 2017. 

Demırdöğen, Ülkü D. “The Roots of Research in (Political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos
 and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications.” International Journal of Social Inquiry, vol. 3, no. 1, Jan. 2010, pp. 189–201., web.a.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=f45c17d3-08a9-4d99-bfbd-252c52712aff%40sessionmgr4007&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=50468023&db=asn. Accessed 15 September 2017.

Yeibo, Ebi “Figurative Language and Stylistic Function in J.P. Clark-Bekederemo’s Poetry.” 
Journal of Language Teaching & Research,  vol. 3, no. 1, Jan. 2012, pp. 180-187., 
web.a.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=0&sid=13d831f5-6d31-40aa-8893-dbd3b7b54ea9%40sessionmgr4009&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=90356013&db=ehh. Accessed 16 September 2017.
