The Great Failure of Religion
	In Sharon Brous’ TED Talk, “It’s Time to Reclaim Religion,” the rabbi addresses the discomfort many people face regarding religion. She effectively persuades fellow believers and cynics of faith that the solution to negative religious extremism is positive religious extremism. She explores all walks of faith and finds four components (wakefulness, hope, mightiness and inter-connectedness) consistently throughout them in which anyone can adopt in order to reclaim religion as a whole. Brous pulls real-world examples of hatred committed in the name of God and contrasts it with the notion that religion’s true purpose is one of “love, justice, equality, and unity” (00:16:09-00:16:14). After pulling people from all walks of faith together through a single email, this talk is her attempt to pull a larger audience together to create a “force for good in the world” (Brous, 00:15:45-00:15:48). Her talk is powerful because of her place as a religious leader and a mom who wants better for her child; her talk is effective because of her relevant examples, explanation of religion’s purpose, and use of step-taking toward a better world. 
	Brous’ vast use of approaches in this talk all work to make her message vibrant and impactful, but her personal experiences make the difference between someone sharing a naïve idea about a better world, and someone who is actively making it a reality. She shares her passion for religion with a story of how she sent an email to everyone she knew that was of or associated with the Jewish faith, seeking to reclaim the heart of their religion (Brous). She invited all of them over to discuss the dryness that has become of the religious experience in hopes of starting a conversation directed towards a change. She expected a handful of people to show up, and instead, 135 people did (Brous). She shares that this gathering had such an impact on her and her guests, and she believed in it enough, that she quit her job and redirected her life towards this revival (Brous). From there, she expanded her reach and searched for “ikar,” or, “the heart of the matter” by exploring the essence of several religions and found they all “justify compassion, coexistence, and kindness” (Brous, 00:07:31-00:08:15). This story shows her dedication to the rhetorical situation that she is addressing in her speech, and establishes that she is someone to look up to in this account. As a loving rabbi, a person who has traveled the world in search of religious restoration, and a friend who helped bring over 100 people back to a faith that was fleeting from them, her credibility to share this message is remarkable. 
	Aside from credibility being her most effective appeal, the appeal she uses to draw the audience in is her use of emotion – specifically humor and sentimentality. She begins the talk by mentioning her “baby girl,” and how hearing about religious terror acts made Brous discouraged about the world she brought her child into (00:00:40-00:00:46). That feeling of fear and worry stirs up in many parents when acts of terror are broadcasted like that, in which the story of her daughter sets up her talk as a place of familiarity. She also makes the rhetorical situation relatable among the audience by using humor. She displays a joke saying “What is missing from ch  ch? U R,” and the audience laughs because they know there is truth behind it (Brous, 00:03:32-00:03:35). She helps emphasize society’s distance from religion in this way. Brous also compares the off-putting “routine-ism” of religion with a marriage. She illustrates the great love and excitement that come with a wedding, and contrasts it with the lackluster celebration of anniversaries (Brous). It becomes routine. She claims that is the same problem with religion, that people have lost the excitement and enthusiasm of worship (Brous). Which is to say that the solution is to bring back life into religion.
	Another effective appeal Brous used in her talk was logically comparing what religion is supposed to be to what it is now. She exemplifies clearly why the world needs to reinstate religion as a positive source by listing the ways in which religion has greatly failed; increases in religion-related violence, subordination of races, (other) religions, women, and the LGBTQ community, are all part of the problem of religion. To that, Brous declares “now is the time for religion to be part of the solution” (00:07:44-00:07:57). To create a change of the negative, Brous outright addresses the discomfort in it. She admits that it is uncomfortable to see these religious acts of hate, especially ones that seem out of reach, and try to change them. However, she states that the explanation for that discomfort is a reaction called psychic numbing; this basically states that “the more we learn about what’s broken in our world, the less likely we are to do anything” (Brous, 00:10:10-00:10:22). This is similar to the bystander effect where a person is less called to help in a situation when there are other people involved, because they tend to think if they do not do something, someone else will. But it would not be uncomfortable if people were not naturally inclined to combat it. She counteracts this by asserting it is a religious leaders job to “make people uncomfortable,” and that in her religion, problems of the world belong to everyone (Brous, 00:10:25-00:10:42). Therefore, she is saying everyone has a part in being the solution. 
	Brous hopes to combat a world-wide issue with a world-wide restoration. Her TED talk “It’s Time to Reclaim Religion,” is set up to be effective from the beginning. By opening with the erroneous qualities of religion and concluding with advice that anyone can implement in their lives to improve the world, she effectively reaches her audience and complements a problem with a clear solution. Her balance of ethos, pathos, and logos throughout the talk shape it to be received well by believers and cynics of faith alike. Since she addresses the major problems of religion, she identifies with cynics and is then able to invite them into the solution. In saying that the world’s problems belong to everyone, she then is holding everyone accountable for this revival of religion. The inclusiveness of this stance makes it powerful, and it’s driven forward by the balanced design of her talk. Her message is supported, meaningful, and clear: everyone has a part in shifting the world toward love, and it starts with religion.

















Works Cited
Brous, Sharon. " It’s Time to Reclaim Religion." TED Ideas Worth Spreading, Oct. 2016,  www.ted.com/talks/sharon_brous_it_s_time_to_reclaim_and_reinvent_religion#t-466235. Accessed 4 September 2017.
