Inequality Gap 

                        Everyone’s dream in life is to live the lavish lifestyle. We see in the media people spending billions of dollars on nice cars, clothes, and homes. But everyone’s dream is terminated when we realize that acquiring that much money with little to no effort is close to impossible. But some people that do acquire that dream is what we all strive for, but if you are in poverty it is close to impossible to get out of it. A lot of families come to America to live the American dream because they think they are going to be promised wealth and fortune, but they are just working harder to close the wealth gap. Many families try to work long hours for minimum pay to earn enough money to find themselves still in the low class.  The lower class earning enough money to strive off of is slim. The inequality gap still exists because the government gives the poor a disadvantage on how people use their money through taxes, minimum wages, and education. 
                       The government automatically takes taxes out of individuals or corporations paychecks or funding to pay for government spending. But, families that make low income pay a higher percentage in taxes even though they barely make enough money to put food on their tables. But the 1 percent do not fully contribute to taxes, they make over millions of dollars but have a lower percentage of their input for taxes. People that also have disadvantages still have to pay for taxes. For example, “The truth is, unauthorized immigrants pay approximately 8 percent of their income in state and local taxes, a higher percentage than wealthier people pay (because state and local taxes are, on the whole, regressive). About 6 million unauthorized immigrants file income taxes each year; and undocumented immigrants are also paying about $15 billion in Social Security taxes, though these immigrants are not eligible for Social Security benefits.” (Williamson, Vanessa.) So, immigrants still must pay a percentage of taxes, but the 1 percent are still paying lower than they are. The riches people have found certain loopholes to get out of paying for taxes. For example, “Some of the ultra-rich are able to take advantage of loopholes so they pay almost nothing in inheritance taxes. Others take advantage of the fact that the exemption levels for the estate tax are very high — $5.3 million per individual ($10.6 million per couple). $3.5 million for an individual ($7 million for a couple) taxed at a 45% top rate.” (Fact sheet.) The rich use loopholes in the tax codes to get to pay only a small percentage of their income, to close the wage gap we are creating a equal opportunity for everyone to pay the same rate depending on people’s income. To level out the tax rate to everyone taxes will undeniable earn more money for federal spending. 
                             Minimum wages are the lowest amount to pay an employee that cannot be lower to prevent workers from being paid an unjustly amount of payment. Raising the minimum wage can be helpful to some families to get them out of poverty and can start to close the inequality gap. It is known that families that earn minimum wage cannot survive off the little money they make. People spend long hours at work to receive little money that they must pay off taxes, bills, etc. that they barely have money left to feed or clothe their own families. In 2015, Bernie Sanders proposed to legislation to raise minimum wages to $15 an hour, which got thousands of people to protest on this issue to make the law pass.  Bernie Sanders said, “It is a national disgrace that millions of full-time workers are living in poverty and millions more are forced to work two or three jobs just to pay their bills,” he said. “A job must lift workers out of poverty, not keep them in it. The current federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage and must be raised to a living wage.” (On The Issue.) Only recently the minimum wages went up to $10 dollars an hour from just $7.25 that was raised in 2009. It is impossible to live if off $7 and still take care of your family. The minimum wage before 2009 was only $6 too, so the federal minimum wage rate took seven years before it went up to $10. The minimum wage increase can employee much more people and raise the economy because the low rate of minimum wages can be the cause of the wage inequality gap. For instance, “Increasing the minimum wage would directly benefit 62 million workers who currently make less than $15 an hour, including over half of African-American workers and close to 60 percent of Latino workers. If the minimum wage had kept up with productivity and inflation since 1968, it would be more than $26 an hour today.” (On The Issue.) So raising the minimum wage can help a lot of people in poverty no matter how many people over look the issue with excuses that raising it would destroy companies and jobs. 
              In the documentary “Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream” directed by Alex Gibney, he references the popular game Monopoly, that to win the game you must strategically play to earn more money than your opponents. But when the game is rigged, and one player has more advantage than everyone else to make more money than it is unfair. When billionaires are making so much money to only pay a small percentage of taxes, then it is not luck but pure greed. Rich people are finding loop holes to not pay for income taxes, even though they make the most money. For example, Alex Gibney says, “A perfect example of the influence that a small group of billionaires can have in the government is something in the tax code called carried interest provision. It allows hedge funds and private equity managers like, Steve Schwarzman, to pay a 15% tax rate on their income…” (Gibney, Alex.) Explaining that to become and stay rich does not take intelligence of any sorts, but have to mastermind to the game of wealth. Yet, rich people still point fingers at the poor that low income families do not pay for income taxes even though most of low income families pay federal taxes. So, the way for anyone to not end up in poverty is to of course either get a job or to have a great education. There are millions of people that are unemployed with available job openings, but companies are not looking for unskilled workers that do not have a college degree. So, to get a job with only a high school degree is merely impossible to obtain that are high paying to get you out of the poor. For instance, in the film the director notes, “Almost everyone agrees that education is the key to upward mobility. For people starting at the bottom of the ladder, a college degree can quadruple our chances to making it to the top, but college is increasingly out of reach. The cost has gone up over 500% since 1980… If you only have a high school diploma there’s a seven and ten chance that you don’t have a full-time work at all.” (Gibney, Alex.) Meaning that the poor is in an endless cycle of being poor.  The poor do not have enough money to make it out of poverty. Then to make a living to feed their family, they end up having a majority of their money that they barely make to put towards taxes in the end. 
                          Most people spend another four years of our life to earn an education in high school to just end up in a minimum wage jobs. It is a known fact that just with a high school diploma or less than that, you will be paid less. For example, “Full-time workers age 25 and older without a high school diploma had median weekly earnings of $494 in the first quarter of 2016. That compares with a median of $679 for high school graduates who never attended college and $782 for workers with some college or an associate degree. Median weekly earnings were $1,155 for workers with a bachelor's degree and $1,435 for workers with an advanced degree—a master’s, professional, or doctoral degree.” (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,) So in order to earn more money you have to go to college in most cases. But when you are in poverty, you barely have enough resources to attend school. Kids in poverty most likely need financial assistance to attend public school and they may even need health care from living in such a poor environment as well too. Children are not taught to excel well enough in school, which can be from their situations outside of school. It is mostly likely kids cannot focus, motivated, or to even do their work because what goes on at home. People in poverty end up not even going to college or even finishing high school setting them up to stay poor. People in poverty cannot earn a education to get them out of poverty, so there is still the issue of closing the inequality gap that the government can certainly help with.   
                         The wage inequality gap has lasted over 30 years, so how has we still have not been able to close it. We have such a huge difference between the poor and the wealthy. The rich have been taking many advantages to get what they want. Companies have even paid political officials to inform more people on the messages that they want. It is seen that money runs the world. The rich have spent millions of dollars to keep themselves rich and unrecognized by the government by to not pay a percentage of taxes through tax codes. Even when democrats tried to fight the unfair loophole they were just ignored. Majority of workers in America pay more taxes than the minority of the rich all together. To close the wage gap, the more logical thing to do is to let the poor earn more money so they will not be in poverty, but the excuse to not raise the gap is that it is only for high school dropout and teenagers even though a huge amount of people are high school drop outs or do not earn enough money to go to college. That raising the minimum wage would cause businesses to go out of business and people to lose their jobs, but people are working long hours to barley make enough money is the issue. People in poverty will probably end up not going to college and will never earn a good living to support their families. The inequality gap must close we must give opportunities to the poor to make it out of poverty. It is the overlook fact that if you are poor you will not make it out of poverty even if you play the game of wealth in America. 


                            Work Cited 
Williamson, Vanessa. “Column: How Much Do the Poor Actually Pay in Taxes? Probably More than You Think.” PBS, Public Broadcasting Service, 8 June 2017, www.pbs.org/newshour/economy/column-much-poor-actually-pay-taxes-probably-think
“Fact Sheet: Taxing Wealthy Americans.” Americans For Tax Fairness, https://americansfortaxfairness.org/tax-fairness-briefing-booklet/fact-sheet-taxing-wealthy-americans/.
“On the Issues: Income and Wealth Inequality.” Bernie Sanders, https://berniesanders.com/issues/income-and-wealth-inequality/.

Gibney, Alex, director. Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream. PBS, 2012, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So&t=2968s.

Weekly Earnings by Educational Attainment in First Quarter 2016 : The Economics Daily.” U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2016/mobile/weekly-earnings-by-educational-attainment-in-first-quarter-2016.htm.
