The World at Our Fingertips
Facebook is popular because it connects people in many different ways, no matter who they are or where they live.  Friends and family members can interact with each other even though there may be many miles between them.  Facebook groups can provide someone with help on any subject matter imaginable with a simple search.  Also, current and up to date news is readily available, keeping us constantly informed on what's going on locally and beyond.  Facebook is easy to use and is a link to the entire world without ever leaving home.
When our family and friends live in another state, it is easy to lose touch with them and feel disconnected.  Through Facebook we can bond and be a part of our loved one's experiences even if we live very far apart from each other.  My aunt and uncle, who live in South Carolina, have been spending their time after retirement traveling the world.  They have recently visited Paris, London, Ireland, and Scotland.  Through the pictures and stories they shared on Facebook, I was taken to another place and felt as if I were a part of their adventures.  Facebook brings us closer to the people we cherish and makes keeping in touch an effortless task.
Facebook groups that are based on many different topics can be easily located and are intended to be helpful and provide information.  For example, my youngest son brought home two hermit crabs from the beach this summer, and I immediately looked to Facebook for advice on their care.  I found a group specifically for hermit crab owners where we have learned so much useful information on how to properly take care of our new little pets.  Another group that I am familiar with is for lost and found pets where members can post a picture and a description of their missing furry friend.  The group has hundreds of members who see the pet's picture; therefore, increasing the odds of finding the lost cat or dog.  I have even seen posts for missing birds!  Facebook groups are places to ask questions, share experiences, and join people with common interests.
I follow several news related Facebook pages; thus, when I log in, the most recent current events are immediately accessible.  This is an easy way to stay up to date with what's going on in the world.  News pages have even used Facebook to capture criminals when thousands of followers see the face of a wanted person and can call a tip line with any information.  I've also noticed police department pages shaming individuals who have shoplifted in order to deter other individuals from stealing.
Facebook is our connection to the world and helps us to stay in touch with friends and family.  This tool also provides us with useful information regardless of what we are searching for and keeps us informed with the latest news.  We can immerse ourselves in Facebook day or night and grasp a collection of knowledge about the universe around us.