
         Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie is a Nigerian author and feminist. In one of her many novels titled Purple Hibiscus, Adichie tells the story of a family from Enugu, Nigeria who face many struggles both subjectively and as a family. Throughout the novel, Adichie shows how they find their voices amid the battles that they each face. Adichie uses the flower in the title of the novel as a symbolic figure to show how one of the characters (Jaja), finds a since of comfort in it amidst the restraints that he faces in his home. In the novel Purple Hibiscus, Adichie presents the purple hibiscus flower as a prominent symbol because it represents freedom, it brings inner peace, and it strengthens identity. 
          In the novel, Adichie shows how the purple hibiscus flower represents freedom when the children in the novel (Kambili and Jaja) visit their aunt Ifeoma and cousins house in Nsukka. The trip becomes the first time that the children are away from their parents. Especially their father (Papa) who is very religious, and throughout the novel abusive and controlling. The trip itself is a conflicting decision for the children’s father to make because of his strict schedules for them and the conflicting lifestyle that his sister lived that he did not 100% agree with. While over his aunt Ifeoma’s house, Jaja begins to become more objective in the freedom that he desires and while doing this, he discovers his admiration for the hibiscus flower and gardening. Working in the garden with aunty Ifeoma gives Jaja a sense of joy and freedom; for he could do something that he desires compared to his restrictions he faces by his father back home. Even when the children are forced to come back home by their father after visiting their aunt for over a week, they each bring back a piece of freedom with them. In Purple Hibiscus, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie describes how Jaja had put “stalks of purple hibiscus” (197; Para 2) in the refrigerator that he took home with him from his aunt Ifeoma’s house. She even talks about how “Jaja’s eyes shone as he talked about the hibiscuses.” (Adichie. 197; Para 2) Adichie displays an ardent tone to show how bringing back the purple hibiscus flowers allows Jaja to have a piece of freedom that he can remember while being back in a place where he feels restricted. 
        The purple hibiscus flower also brings inner peace throughout the novel. Once Jaja is introduced to gardening, he begins to have a renewing sense. According to the Universe of Symbolism, “The flower symbolism for the hibiscus flower is to be an outward expression of joy and happiness. It is the dream realized in enjoying every step of the way, seeing beauty and finding a reason to celebrate the simplest of joys. Hibiscus flowers vibrates to the sacral and heart chakras.” (Presley Love; .2.) The hibiscus flowers offer joy and happiness and Adichie shows how Jaja is at peace within himself while working with the purple hibiscus flowers and finding beauty in them. Also, every hibiscus flower and their colors differ by culture. “Purple can have calming effects over the mind and nerves, it can be uplifting and can trigger creativity.” (Color Psychology; Para 8.) Adichie uses the intricate meanings of a purple hibiscus flower to bring peace at a time when Jaja feels confined to his father’s limitations.
        Furthermore, the author shows how the hibiscus flower strengthens identity. Although many of the characters struggle to find themselves and their voices, Jaja does so through his trip to Nsukka and encountering the hibiscus flowers. Nsukka is where Jaja finds himself and his authority. At the end of the novel, Jaja takes blame for his mother’s actions and ultimately goes to jail because he feels of that authority identity that he got while he was in Nsukka. He feels like he could have done something to help his mother find her voice like he did. But while in jail, the reader begins to see how beneficial the hibiscus flower is towards Jaja’s identity. Adichie shows how the confinement of the jail cell corelates to the confinement that Jaja felt in his home back in Enugu. However, when Kambili and Mama visit the jail to tell Jaja that he will be released soon, his reaction is impassive. Then, Kambili suggest something. According Purple Hibiscus, Kambili states, “We will take Jaja to Nsukka first, and then we’ll go to America to visit Aunty Ifeoma,” I say. “We’ll plant new orange trees in Abba when we come back, and Jaja will plant hibiscus too, ….” (Adichie. 306-307; Para 4) Adichie shows the correlation between Kambili’s suggestion for Jaja to revisit a place where he gained his identity and voice. It also allows Kambili to revisit a place where she gains her voice as well. The planting of the hibiscus flowers also allows Jaja to begin to find himself again after being re-confined.  
          In the novel Purple Hibiscus, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie allows the reader to see how symbolic the Purple Hibiscus flower is throughout the novel. Adichie effectively informs the reader of the freedom, the peace, and identity that the hibiscus flower provides. The role of the flower allows Jaja to discover his voice and his passion. The irony in the novel that hibiscus flowers are not usually purple adds effect to Adichie’s intentional meanings for the flower being purple. Being that it brings a “calming” and “uplifting” presence.        






Work Cited 

Przybyla, Dena. The Psychology of Colors and Their Meanings. Color Psychology.org: 2017 
Love, Presley. “Flower Symbolisms and Meanings.” The Universe of Symbolism.org. 2017 
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Chapel Hill: Algonquin Books, 2003. Print.
