Personal Narrative Essay		
	How is it that humans are so different from one another?  After all, we are all born to a set of parents, some more traditionally than others, and then raised in the same world as the other 7 billion people.  One would think that humans should resemble their predecessors, or rather, their parents.  However, this is not the case.  In Andrew Solomon’s book entitled Son, Solomon introduces his audience to the idea of vertical and horizontal identities.  Vertical identities are “Attributes and values [that] are passed down from parent to child across the generations not only through strands of DNA, but also through shared cultural norms” (370).  Solomon states that vertical identities are inherited from a child’s parents: “Because of the transmission of identity from one generation to the next, most children share at least some traits with their parents” (369).  In every child’s upbringing, children are encouraged to adhere to their parents’ vertical identity.  This includes things like shared cultural norms as well as genetics.  Ethnicity and language can be considered vertical identities that are passed down from parent to child.  The horizontal identity that Solomon discusses is an identity inherited from a friend group that is “foreign” to a child’s parents.  Solomon states that gayness, deafness, and physical disabilities are all considered horizontal identities, or rather “recessive genes, random mutations, prenatal influences, or values and preferences that a child does not share with his progenitors” (370).  This concept of horizontal identity implies that the horizontal identity developed by a child is not desired by their parent, “Vertical identities are usually respected as identities; horizontal ones are often treated as flaws” (371).  In one aspect of my life, religion, I have found this argument to be entirely true.
Religion, as defined by Merriam Webster, is “the belief in and worship of a personal God.”  I consider myself to be a religious person, adhering to the Christian faith.  My path to Christianity did not begin until I was nine years old.  I turned to God for answers following the death of my nana.  Faith became the aspect of my life that I could cling to, when everything else felt as though it was falling apart.  I grew up in a house that never attended church, not even for Christmas or Easter.  I grew up in a house that never said grace before meals or prayers before bed.  I grew up in a house that never volunteered or served in my community.  I grew up in a house that never shared the word of God or had a Bible on the bookshelf.  Until the age of nine, I never understood what a relationship with Christ meant.  I was never exposed to Christianity.  My parents have always claimed to be believers of a more divine presence.  Yet, there are many things they disagree with concerning my faith.  My older sister is a self-proclaimed atheist, she believes in no divine presence at all.  As one can imagine, it has been difficult to adhere to a faith for almost an entire decade that my own family wants no part of.  After reading Solomon’s piece, I really connected with his descriptions of both vertical and horizontal identities.  There are many ways I am like my parents.  I am tan-skinned with brown hair and eyes, just like my mother.  I love going to the lake, swimming and fishing, just like my father.  But, there are many ways I am entirely different from my parents.  My faith and commitment to Christ separates myself from my family.  My faith is my “abnormal” horizontal identity.
When I was nine, I began to reach out to God.  My best friend since birth, Lydia, lived down the street from me.  She was very invested in the church and supported my desires to form a relationship with Him.  With Lydia’s help and invitation, I began to pursue God more strongly than ever before.  I attended church, infrequently at first, and then more frequently as time went on.  It wasn’t until I got my license in April of 2015 that I became an-every weekend church-goer.  In August of that same year, I joined my first ever youth group with Lydia. Together, we attended Impact, a youth group that connected me to Christ in ways that church never had.  I formed the most incredible friendships with people in my small group.  I became more devoted to my faith with the addition of each friend from youth group.  This is how my horizontal identity blossomed.  My peer group impacted me in ways I had never been before.  They challenged my thoughts about God and stretched my faith.  They spent time with me outside of church and youth group.  We invested in one another and had the best times together.  Each week we would grab dinner together or go to someone’s house for a home cooked meal.  Sleepovers were a regularity I enjoyed, complete with movie marathons.  I gained a friend group I loved while exploring the God I loved, both of which signaled to me that faith was what had always been missing in my previous years of life.  Throughout my remainder of high school, I spent time with my friends from youth group.  We began to serve in our community together.  On the weekends, we would visit nursing homes, rehabilitation centers and homeless shelters.  We provided food, supplies, and love to these people. With every minute spent in the company of my peer group I grew closer to God.  Solomon states that horizontal identities are identities that can only be learned from peer groups.  I am certain that my experience with faith would have never occurred had it not been for the initial support of my best friend, Lydia and all the friends that followed her.
During June of 2016 I attended my first ever church retreat in Anytown.  Bigstuf was an incredible experience that immersed myself into four days of worship, prayer, sermons, and small group time.  Once again, I went on this trip with my closest friends.  I know that Bigstuf would never have even been a possibility for me if it weren’t for my friends.  The thought of church camp without these individuals was unappealing, but with them it was amazing.  On our final day of camp, I was baptized in the Gulf of Mexico, surrounded by my closest friends in Christ.  To Christians, baptism is a way of publicly declaring one’s faith.  Baptism is a celebration.  On June 23, 2016, I celebrated my faith with my friends, not with my family.  The experience of baptism changed my life forever.  Baptism is something I wish my parents could have shared with me.  Baptism is something I wish my parents had wanted to support me in.  There have been times in my life where I have felt different because of my faith.  I know my parents do not judge me.  They do not see my faith as an illness.  However, they will never understand my faith.  They will never understand its significance in my life.  I have struggled for years to understand why my parents could never share in this identity of mine.  Every weekend, I attend church alone.  Every Christmas Eve, I leave dinner and go to church alone.  Every Easter, I leave breakfast and go to church alone.  This horizontal identity of mine is an identity that I wish so badly could have been vertically passed to me.  I know I cannot change my circumstance.  Just as I can choose my beliefs, my parents and sister can choose theirs.  I embrace my horizontal identity.  I embrace my difference.  I am a product of my parents, but I am not a copy.  
My horizontal identity is not viewed as an illness to the majority of society.  My identity is accepted, so I am one of the lucky ones.  My identity simply sets me apart from my parents.  My parents will never reject me because of my religious beliefs, but they will never fully understand me either.  Solomon states that “We choose our own lives.  It is not simply that we decide on the behaviors that construct our experience; when given our druthers, we elect to be ourselves” (386).  I am so happy that I have chosen my own life, and I am so happy that I continue to live my life for myself, and Him, every day.  My decision to be a Christian is one that I will always stand behind.  This horizontal identity I developed is one I will always be grateful for, and I owe it to my friends for the best relationship I could have ever gained, a relationship with God.
