Sherlock Christopher
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time is a novel, written by Mark Haddon, about a young boy named Christopher, who discovers that Mrs. Shears' dog, Wellington, has been killed.  Christopher enjoys reading books about Sherlock Holmes and decides to become a detective himself.  He searches for clues to solve the mystery of who killed his neighbor's dog and ends up uncovering more than he anticipated.  He finds letters from his mother, whom he believes is dead.  After seeing that Christopher has found and read these letters, Christopher's father decides to tell the whole truth about everything and admits to being the person who killed Wellington.  This scares Christopher, and he runs away from home.  Running away teaches Christopher to become more independent because he is suddenly out on his own.  He decides to go to London because he now knows that his mother is there, and he wants to live with her.  Christopher is still very angry at his father for lying to him about Wellington and about his mother.  He doesn't trust his father and wants nothing to do with him.  The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time is an interesting story about learning the truth and the consequences that follow.
After Christopher's father confesses to killing Wellington, Christopher runs away from home.  Previously, Christopher accidentally finds letters written to him recently by his mother.  Christopher thinks that she died of a heart attack and is stunned when he realizes that his mother is actually alive; furthermore, she had an affair with Mr. Shears and moved away with him to London.  Christopher's father then reveals another secret, that he killed Wellington.  Christopher is terrified and cannot believe what he is hearing.  He concludes that he must leave immediately and get away from his father.  Christopher states, "I had to get out of the house.  Father had murdered Wellington.  That meant he could murder me, because I couldn't trust him, because he had told a lie about a big thing" (Haddon 121).  At first, Christopher doesn't know where to go or what to do.  The only thing he knows for sure is that he needs to be isolated from his father, and Christopher soon discovers a new world full of uncertainties.
Running away from home forces Christopher to become more independent.  He has rarely been away from home alone, and traveling to London by himself seems like an impossible trip.  Christopher explains, " I had never been anywhere apart from the shop at the end of the road on my own.  And the thought of going somewhere on my own was frightening" (Haddon 129).  He does not liked to talk to strangers and does not like to be touched in any way, but in order to get to London by himself, he must talk to people to find out how to get there.  He also has to wait in busy terminals and ride inside small, enclosed train cars where people brush up against him.  However, Christopher is determined to find his mother.  He pushes himself to do things he would have never before considered and soon realizes that he can do this and so much more.
After Christopher runs away, he presumes that going to London to live with his mother is the best choice in deciding where to go.  He thinks that this will be easy because he knows her address, and he also believes the transition of moving in with her will be smooth.  However, Christopher's mother has her own life in London, and Christopher suddenly showing up creates some challenges for his mother and Mr. Shears, who does not like the idea of Christopher's living with them in London.  Christopher's mother quickly sees that she must put her son first, and they travel home to Swindon without Mr. Shears knowing.  Once back at home, Christopher ends up taking his A level maths at school and excelling.  He and his mother also find a place to live and begin a fresh start.  Christopher points out, "I know I can do this because I went to London on my own, and because I solved the mystery of Who Killed Wellington? and I found my mother and I was brave and I wrote a book and that means I can do anything" (Haddon 221-22).  Christopher is not the same boy and has grown and matured through his obstacles.
New Paragraph
Christopher rekindles a relationship with his mother, but the relationship he has with his father is broken.  Christopher feels betrayed by his father because he shockingly turns out to be the key to the mystery that Christopher is trying to solve of who killed Wellington.  Additionally, his father hides the fact that Christopher's mother is not dead but is alive and living in London.  Christopher feels that he can no longer trust his father and halts their relationship without hesitation.  Meanwhile, Christopher's father tries to make things right and concedes, "Christopher look...Things can't go on like this.  I don't know about you, but this...this just hurts too much.  You being in the house but refusing to talk to me...You have to learn to trust me...And I don't care how long it takes...If it's a minute one day and two minutes the next and three minutes the next and it takes years I don't care.  Because this is important.  This is more important than anything else" (Haddon 218).  He loves Christopher very much and even gets him a new puppy in an effort to soften his heart and to show Christopher that he is truly sorry.
Christopher unknowingly takes off on a life-changing journey after finding out that his father killed Wellington.  He gains a newfound independence.  He finds his mother and develops a new relationship with her; however, Christopher's recent discoveries cause a break in the bond that he shares with his father.  Finally, Christopher makes a most important discovery about himself, that there is nothing he can't do.


Works Cited
Haddon, Mark.  The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time.  Vintage Books, 2003.