Eugene’s Complex Relationship
	
In the past, the typical family household consisted of two or more children, a “stay-at-home-housewife” mother, and a strong, leading father. The father role consisted of a strong man, who lead the family, and often told them what to do, when to do it, and how to do it. Of course, times have changed the stereotypical role, but not in this particular novel. In the novel “The Purple Hibiscus”, Eugene displays many traits of the typical father figure stereotype by being the disciplinary parent, the “man with the plan”, and the caring father, all in one. 
In the novel, Eugene is constantly portrayed as being the parent who disciplines the children. In the beginning of chapter one, Kambali is scared of Papa’s reaction to Jaja’s reasoning for not attending mass, because she was afraid of the way Papa would react towards Jaja. Kambali is well aware of the forthcoming actions of her well-meaning disciplining father, but her poor brother, Jaja, is not. Another time Papa shows his disciplinary side, is when Kambali does not place first in her class. Papa reacts with disappointment, and shows Kambali by visiting her class and asking why she could not be first when she has the same capability as Chinwe (first place). Papa Eugene shows his disciplinary side the most in the novel, but does not hesitate to show his other sides.
Aside from being the disciplinary dad, Eugene is also shown to be the “Man with the plan”, throughout the novel. Eugene constantly plans, and schedules the family’s every move. Kambali often mentions how Eugene gives the family a weekly schedule they are to follow because he “likes order”. For example, the way Eugene grants the children an allowance of 15 minutes exactly, to spend with Papa-Nnukwu, and does not want them to spend a minute longer with him. He is strict with these policies, and even disciplines them when they are not followed.
Eugene is a man who does not like to change his normal schedule of things, which is why he likes for his family to follow his rules, and schedules, even Mama.
Even though Eugene is mostly portrayed to be strict, and violent towards his family, he sometimes slips, and shows his caring side. Papa Eugene teaches the children the “love sip”, which was a metaphor for his own love. The love sip showed that although sometimes Papa is “mean”, he always means well. Just like how the tea burned their tongue, but the taste was always sweet. Another time Papa is shown to be caring is when Kambali mentions how proud Papa was when Jaja won “neatest boy”, in school, and how it looked like Papa’s happiest day.
Papa is also shown to value charity, and the feeling of giving back to others. For example, when the family returns home for Christmas, Papa gives the children in the driveway money, for no reason.
Throughout the novel, there are many sides to Papa Eugene. While most sides shown in the novel are usually hostile, there are sides to Papa that are more caring. Papa shows all of his many personalities towards different characters when he decides, and each character experiences many different complex relationships with Papa Eugene. Although Papa Eugene is portrayed as a strict father, he can be more than that. He is not just the “typical” father. He is the caring father, who is also strict, and organized.
