Subject: Memo integrating StrengthFinder and CareerLeader Assessments

Upon taking the StrengthFinder and CareerLeader assessments I have found many similarities between the two, with only one major contrast.
The results of my top five strengths correlate well with my highest scoring interests from the CareerLeader assessment. My top five strengths were: Connectedness, Maximizer, Intellection, Adaptability, and Harmony. My highest ranking interest from CareerLeader is Theory Development and Research, in which intellection and maximizing would come into play. Coaching and mentoring was the second highest interest, directly relating to connectedness and harmony.
Lifestyle, autonomy, and security were my highest ranking motivators. Lifestyle and autonomy make perfect sense as top motivators because my independence and time for off-work activities mean a lot to me. Harmony, one of my strengths, plays into these two motivators well as I like things to be easy going and would rather end conflict quickly, hence autonomy being important. When I get to work independently, there isn’t much room for conflict. Job security as a motivator surprised me, since I’m not scared to take risks and move to another position if I feel it’s a better fit, which may be where the maximizing strength comes into play.
The top skills from my CareerLeader assessment didn’t come as a surprise and fit great with my top five strengths. Listening, gaining trust, and comfort with differences all ranked above the 90th percentile in Interpersonal Effectiveness. It’s easy to see where my top strengths match up well with these. Harmony, adaptability, and connectedness have almost the same descriptions from both assessments. I love being able to listen and adapt to different situations, so I felt great that these areas matched up. Strategic decision making and power/influence both ranked high as well, showing the strengths of maximizing and adaptability too.
The most exciting part of the CareerLeader assessment was the career matching portion. I ranked highest in two areas of interest to me, entrepreneurship and investment management. As a small business owner, it was great to know that I was on the right track. Adaptability and maximizing as strengths has played a large role in my entrepreneurial endeavors so far. Investment management came in second as a potential career, and I’ve always held an interest in it. This is another reason that security, as a high ranking motivator, surprised me so much. Anything dealing with investments involves risk.
Overall, the two assessment went great together. They mostly related and some descriptions merged so well that it was hard to tell the difference. The one contrast that stuck out most was miniscule, although I should probably take a deeper look at how much job security really means to me. The assessments have already caused me to take action with my academics, switching my concentration from management (which never fit me well) to entrepreneurship. They also solidified and gave me more confidence in my prior choice to start a business.
