
TITLE
	Everyone follows a type of rules in their lifetime. Some may have to follow laws from their country, rules from their parents, or they now to do something. Where I am from there are rules that I know, without my mom telling me. For example, I knew not to touch anything in the store, or I would get in trouble. It is the same thing with living in my neighborhood. While growing up there were rules that we had to abide by that were never said.  In order to survive my neighborhood, I could not walk on my neighbor’s lawn, be out past sunset, and I could not go down the hill.
	When I was younger my friends and I loved playing outside. We could talk about anything and play games without our parents being there. But, we all knew not to run through my neighbor’s lawn. She always told our parents that we were in her yard and tried to get us in trouble. We all hated this rule because walking through her lawn was a short cut. It allowed us to get to our destination quicker, without walking around her lawn. Till this day we do not stand on her grass. 
	While it was fun playing outside we all had a curfew to abide by. Most of my friends could stay out until the street lights came on, but I had to be inside earlier than everyone else. My mom would always call and tell me come inside by a certain time. As I got older, I realized that she would always call me when the sun started to go down. So, as I got older I would tell my friends I had to be inside by 6/7 P.M. If not, I would be in a lot of trouble. 
	Lastly, to avoid being in trouble I could not go down the street. My mom would always tell me not to go down the street because she wanted to see me, but all of my friends could. Every time we went outside I had to stay in at the top of the hill, so my mom can see me. But, as I got older I went down the street more. I knew that my mom did not get home until 6 P.M., so I would be up the hill by 5 P.M.
	In conclusion, for me to survive living in my neighborhood I could not walk on my neighbor’s lawn, be outside past seven, and I could not go down the street. These were rules that I knew to follow because I did not want to get in trouble with my mother. Also, some of these rules allowed me to know my neighborhood better. For example, I know who house I can go in, and who house I cannot go through. Also, I got to know my neighbors better because of these rules.
