A Time In NYC
Throughout my entire life, I have never lived in anywhere that is considered greatly urbanized. Even when I lived in the Anytown area, I was in a neighborhood on a lake with lots of surrounding trees and densely wooded plots of land. This all goes to show that I haven’t had the experience of visiting anywhere that is so historically and culturally fruitful. During my junior year of high school, I had the opportunity to embark on one of the most fascinating journeys of a lifetime- a trip to New York City. The sights, tastes, and the friendly atmosphere of this grandiose city all come together to create what I can only describe as a lethal dose of terrifyingly awesome exciting experiences that is sure to leave one feeling more cultured than ever.
From the moment that I stepped off my plane at the LaGuardia airport, the first thing I caught myself in awe of was that so many unique skyscrapers seemed to stretch for miles in every cardinal direction that was occupied by land. Even from the top of the Empire State Building, I could not see anywhere in the next few miles that wasn’t a building (except for Central Park, of course). The sights in the city, however, were not all above ground. Even the subways were all lined with some form of exquisite tile art on the walls! Everywhere I went was yet another picture to be described with at least a thousand words. Times Square, Grand Central Station, the Chelsea Market, the Statue of Liberty, Central Park, Carnegie Hall, Radio City Music Hall, and the Museum of Natural History; All of these places and everywhere in between were overflowing with culture that was almost impossible to comprehend in the timespan of just a few short winter days. 
Along with the sights of the city, I feel that it is equally important to discuss the diverse tastes that can be found around every corner. The morning of my arrival, I decided to head over to Union Square after unpacking at the hotel I was staying at to try and find something to eat. I decided to try a restaurant on the square that was decorated with a classy, modern country- like interior. As charming as the atmosphere was, the food was on a completely different level! I decided to have the house special with a peppermint cappuccino. The house special consisted of two deep fried strips of white meat chicken on top of carrot cake waffles that were coated with powdered sugar and served with a delectably unique spicy honey-berry syrup. The spicy-sweet savory taste of the meal left me completely speechless, it was like I had died and went to foodie heaven! That was not the only fantastic meal that I had though, there were many more with plenty of snacks along the way. I had the pleasure of getting to experience real vegetable mei fun in Chinatown, authentic tiramisu gelato in Little Italy, and even teriyaki ramen burgers in the food court of one of the many markets I went to! Needless to say, the food that I ate in the city was most definitely some of the best I’ve had in my life.
The final thread that was woven into the tapestry of my experience of the city was the fact that every single person that I met there was treating me as if I were their own family. What made New York city such a pleasurable experience wasn’t so much the food or sights, but rather the people. I have never been anywhere else on earth where all of the people seemed to be quite as cheery and hospitable, not even Disney World! Everywhere I went, all the locals were so welcoming to everyone they saw- tourist or not. It was for this reason that being alone in the Big Apple didn’t feel so lonely for me. It’s also for this reason that I would go back in a heartbeat, anytime, any day.
Once I left the city, I felt like a completely different person. Nothing I have experienced since being in New York City has been quite the same as before. I feel like having experienced something as frighteningly awesome as being in the place that most people only ever get to hear about is truly humbling. To be filled with an overwhelming amount of knowledge and culture from such an amazing experience is something that I wouldn’t trade for the world, and I hope that everyone has at least one chance to get to undertake a journey as magnificent as this. A life-changing encounter such as this makes me yearn for nothing but my return to such a fantastic place to continue my tale of the great city, that is New York.