
Freedom in the 17th Century Virginia
Slavery, as we all should know, is the act of being another person's property. Back in the 1600’s there were many enslaved people especially African Americans. Englishman would use them for many things including on farms, for house keeping, etc. As time went on throughout the 17th century things got intense and aggressive. Laws were passed that prohibited violence towards slaves and allowed white supremacist to avoid punishment for acts that, in current time, would be a major crime. By having slavery around the English gained more freedom by taking away the freedom African Americans had.
	We know Englishmen, and others, were enslaving people, at first there were just indentured servants, men and women who signed a contract agreeing to work for so long in exchange for the necessary resources for them to keep on living. “The problem with this is it’s 
only for so long” (Class Lecture). Slaves began to be more African Americans rather than whites. The Englishmen realized it was cheaper and more convenient to have african american slaves to do their work. This caused an increase of slavery along with an increase in laws and segregation. 
	In beginning, the laws were not very aggressive, consequences for lying with a “negro” was being whipped. Another law was negroes could not defend themselves under any circumstance and if caught they would be fined (Virginia Slave Laws). However, later on in the 17th century things began to get more aggressive. By 1662 a law was passed that stated “..all children borne in this country shalbe held bond or free only according to the condition of the mother..” (Virginia Race Laws). In modern terms, if a baby was born and it’s mother was a colored slave, it would be a slave. If the child had a white mother it would not be a slave. 

In 1691 a law was passed that included this quote, “..slaves lying out as oversaid shall resist, run away, or refuse to deliver in surrender him or themselves to any person or persons that shall be by lawful authority employed to apprehend and take such negroes, mulattoes, or other slaves that in such cases it shall and may be lawful for such person or persons to kill and destroy such negroes, mulattoes and other slave or slaves by gun or any otherwaise whatsoever” (Virginia Laws). In simpler terms, if a slave acts out, a person has the legal rights to kill the slave with any means necessary. This law made slaves become more like an object rather than a person. 
Even though the Europeans and African Americans were Christian, believed in the same God, and got baptized, they were treated as though they lived in a different world. They had no real rights. They couldn’t leave their home, or in this case, their owner's home, without being accused of disobeying their owner. In result, by stepping out to take a walk they could potentially get murdered by their owner. They couldn’t defend themselves because that right was taken away in more than one law passed. Now it is in the constitution that man has the right to bear arms. 
The major job slaves had included working on tobacco farms. Tobacco was the main source of income for many English colonies. These slaves were picked out based on their agricultural experience along with being immune to diseases that included malaria. Malaria is a disease caused by mosquitos. This increased the production of tobacco, benefiting the English, but didn’t benefit slaves. It limited their freedom.
In conclusion, slavery in the beginning of the 17th century was less violent, but still unethical, compared to later on in the 17th century. Minorities were treated like property and forced to work in poor conditions that resulted in many illnesses. Their freedom was taken away and given to Englishmen who enslaved them. America has come a long way since that time.
