GATTACA 2018: The Future of Societies Genes
	A biomedical scientist and writer of stem cell and genetics, Paul Knoepfler in his TED Talk “The Ethical Dilemma of Designer Babies” debates if scientists should be allowed to genetically modify humans with new CRISPR technology. CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeat) is a technology that can erase undesirable genetics and rewrite genes to produce a more desired trait and could even eliminate auto-immune diseases from humans. Knoepfler claims that within the next 15 years designer babies could be an eminent possibility (“The Ethical Dilemma”). While he agrees that using CRISPR on humans could enhance everything from beauty to genetic health, he is concerned about the unforeseen consequences of altering human genomes. With an intended audience of scientist and future parents, Knoepfler, successfully using CRISPR in his own lab, gains the trust of the audience and creates a futurist 2030 story to evoke emotion, while the overall logical appeal of his speech is careful planned and clearly demonstrates his point.
With Knoepfler’s experience using CRISPR, he proves to the audience that he can confidently and knowledgably speak about such technology especially since he is “…[using] it in [his] own lab” (6:59-8:20). On top of being able to work directly with CRISPR, Knoepfler “[is] a stem cell and genetics researcher” (4:07-5:02). Knoepfler’s speech is believable as a result of being a stem cell researcher and using CRISPR himself. Finally, the way Knoepfler presents himself on stage boost the appeal of his argument. He presents himself confidently by dressing in formal attire and largely in the way he speaks. He speaks calmly and confidently displaying that he knows the subject he is presenting. In conclusion, Knoepfler appears highly qualified based off his credentials to speak about the possibilities of CRISPR.
Right from the start of his speech Knoepfler hooks the audience through use of pathos. His futuristic story is set in 2030 and is about two families. One family has a child named Marianne who is an unmodified or natural child, while Marianne’s best friend Jenna is a million-dollar genetically modified baby with multiple upgrades (Knoepfler 1:07-2:50). He goes through the story and describes Jenna’s superiority over Marianne in terms of beauty, health, and even intelligence. To further the emotional appeal Knoepfler narrates how Jenna is being sent to a different school than Marianne because she is so gifted, leaving Marianne and her family in disarray (2:50-3:48). He even goes as far as to have Marianne say “‘Daddy, will Jenna even be my friend anymore?’” (Knoepfler 2:50-3:48), emotionally joining parents to his speech by giving them a realistic personal connection. Though Knoepfler has not brought up his opinion on the idea of genetically modified children he already sets the stage for a negative approach. Knoepfler then moves on to speak about his view of genetically modified babies. 
Continuing his effective emotional appeal, Knoepfler uses emphatic phrases and words such as “hacking” and “out of control” (13:00-13:59) when describing how a scientist would use CRISPR for humans. He instills fear in the audience by saying “… someone is going to go that extra step… it opens the door too far… what’s going to be driving them. It’s going to be ideology or the chase for a profit. And they’re going to go for designer babies” (Knoepfler 6:59-8:20). Continuing his claim that designer babies are a chase for profit rather than the for the good of humanity, Knoepfler advises that genetic modifications to humans should be banned stating that “... it’s just too dangerous and too unpredictable” (15:05-15:38). 
To conclude his speech, he returns to his futurist 2030 story where Knoepfler leaves a powerful question hanging in the air; “…our kid is swinging on the swing…we went the sort of traditional route… They're adorable, you love them, but… next to them, their best friend is a [genetically modified] kid… and you can't help but compare… How is that going to make you feel and what decision might you make next time?” (16:57-18:10). Such a powerful call to action mixed with emotional appeal clearly shows what he hopes the audience will do.
Knoepfler uses logos throughout his speech, starting with his whimsical yet plausible 2030 story. He then continues by telling the audience what makes him qualified to talk about CRISPR, and arguing his point against genetically modified babies. Finally he closes with a call to action, ending again with his story. After describing how CRISPR physically changes genes he acknowledges the other side of the argument. He brings in the side of the argument that supports genetic modification for the health of humans, not designer babies. He mentions that the UK, a country traditionally against genetic modification has passed a law contrary to their perceived beliefs. In essence this law allows for scientists to create genetically modified babies with the sole intent of ridding future generations with rare diseases (Knoepfler 5:02-6:05). Knoepfler acknowledges the other side of the argument that recognizes creating genetically modified children for the purposes of creating a healthier society but, then is able to combat the idea by claiming other scientist would go to the next level and create designer babies.
All in all, Paul Knoepfler soundly supports each of the three rhetorical appeals in his TED Talk by effectively appealing emotionally through a story, justifying his credibility and presenting his argument logically. He uses the 2030 story to help the audience to relate to how CRISPR could affect society and backs up his claims with his own knowledge of CRISPR. By the way that Paul Knoepfler uses rhetorical devices to present that designer babies are a real possibility he ultimately resends the idea of designer babies and calls the public and other scientist to action to do the same in order to prevent his 2030 story from becoming a reality.



















Work Cited
“The Ethical Dilemma of Designer Babies.” TED Talk: Ideas Worth Spreading, Oct. 2015, www.ted.com/talks/paul_knoepfler_the_ethical_dilemma_of_designer_babies. Accessed 7 September 2017.
Knoepfler, Paul. “The Ethical Dilemma of Designer Babies.” TED: Ideas Worth Spreading, October 2015, www.ted.com/talks/paul_knoepfler_the_ethical_dilemma_of_designer_babies. Accessed 23 August 2017.
