Subject: Integrating StrengthsFinder and CareerLeader Assessments

After taking the two assigned assessments StrengthsFinder and CareerLeader they have both proved themselves to be valuable tools for my future. According to the StrengthsFinder assessments, my top five strengths are achiever, responsibility, consistency, analytical, and discipline. These align deeply with my skills and interests according to my other report CareerLeader. My skills corresponding to this test include multiple focuses action oriented time management and organization. 

My skills from CareerLeader fall into place with my five top strengths quite nicely. As someone who has the ability to sustain multiple focuses through being analytical and organized along with discipline and consistency is imperative to maintain a positive reputation. Making this also to be helpful when I am looking to tranistion into the workforce. Being able to use the skill of time management well assists being able to maintain multiple projects. I feel success upon achievement of the task presented which proves me to be very action-oriented and quick to make multiple focuses in order to finish tasks I have been given. 

My Career Match resulted in business development and sales which falls into alignment with some of my top five strengths specifically achievement analytics and responsibility. The need for achievement would drive me to meet the sales goals set by my employer. As someone who has a strength in analytics would lead to a successful career in developing a business through growing their capital investments and customers. Responsibility and discipline would be a good fit for an employee working in the sales and development of a company because of the need to be organized within this position. 

I think the results from both assessments are similar going on to further reflect my need to be consistent. Since consistency is one of my strengths according to StrengthsFinder it helps to emphasize my desire for a sense of regularity not only within myself but also in the image and work I produce. While I do not see either of the results diverging or contradicting the other I think this goes to highlight that these two tests look for similar attributes within people to give the one taking them a sense of trueness among the agreement of the two different systems. I have found this to be true to my personality and motivators and validating that the information within the two tests are reliable.

When I was first assigned these two assessments were that they were too time consuming and would not offer me something of value. However, after seeing the results I understand now why these assessments are so important to this course. I will be able to use the results produced by the two assessments as a great tool for my future when it comes to transitioning from college to the work force. With a deeper understanding of the two personal assessments and how they intertwine will become a vital tool for me as I begin the interviewing process with future employers. StrengthsFinder and CareerLeader have granted me with a sound overview of what I can provide for a company and what to look for in a company to make sure my personality and work ethic are a good complement to the company’s culture.
