Subject: Community Service Reflection

For the community service aspect of this course, I chose to volunteer at the Good Shepherd Center of Anytown. The center started out as a small soup kitchen back in 1983 and has grown to have multiple locations serviced and their main location growing into a full day and night homeless shelter with various other programs. This organizations mission is to provide housing, meals, and social work services to those in the community who need them most and help to transition them into permanent housing. 

Good Shepherd hosts guests during the day giving them access to phones, showers, clothes, mental and physical health services, breakfast and lunch. The meals offered at the center are completely free to anyone who walks in the door from the workers downtown to the homeless. They also can host up to 118 guests each night and serve them dinner and have access to the same amenities as the day shelter guests. One of the services offered at Good Shepherd was that each night guests get a clean set of sheets to make their beds with regardless of if this is the first time or hundredth time they have been to the shelter leading their guest to feel valued and cared for. 

I volunteered with the Second Helpings division of the Good Shepherd Center. I was fortunate enough to experience all three main roles within this program. First volunteers drive to various grocery stores like Costco, Lowes Foods, Harris Teeter, and The Fresh Market in the local area to pick up their donations. The stores typically donate things that have passed the sell-by date or have a short shelf life left. The food is then brought back to the center and the second step of the process begins. 

Once all the donated food has been weighed and sorted into general categories like produce, deli, bakery, and meats, sorters then sort the foods into more specific groups to make it easier for staff and volunteers to find later. Another program the center offers is the second helpings grocery box to those who have been rehoused in the past year. This program helps to subsidies their food costs as their former guests get back on their feet. In the following weeks, I worked with the sorting volunteers and enjoyed how they made the environment fun with laughter and music blasting and how the regulars had a sense of family since they volunteered week after week together. 

I found this experience to be very rewarding for myself because I saw the impact of a produce box full of food can brighten someone’s day or week. After delivering the grocery boxes I really liked seeing the facilities mission come full circle and meeting some of their former guests being placed into permanent housing. This assignment has confirmed my belief in the need for everyone to have a role in the betterment of society and social responsibility. 

After working with some of the workers and former guests I have seen the importance of helping others in your community shine through in ways I had not directly seen in the past volunteer work I have done. For instance, when I was sorting food I was not in direct contact with those who would benefit from the food but the behind the scenes work is just as important for organizations as the person serving dinner to each of the guests.
