Bee the Future. Save the Bees
       	Pesticides have long been used to prevent insects from destroying crops.  The use of pesticides is essential for large scale, successful crop growth. However, in recent years, scientists have agreed that pesticide use has contributed to the large-scale decline of honey bees. Most crops cannot prosper without the help of honey bees. A majority of scientists support the idea that honey bees exposed to pesticides can be susceptible to disease, reproduction failure, and ultimately death. Recent research has also suggested that in low doses, chemical pesticides may actually be able to stimulate honey bees. Scientists continue to study how pesticides affect honey bees to find a solution for farmers and pollinating insects.
       	Across the board, scientists agree that the domestic honey bee is vital for agriculture. Honey bees are annually shipped to large scale farms to pollinate crops, anything from strawberries to onions. In her article, “Declining Bee Populations Pose a Threat to Global Agriculture”, author Elizabeth Grossman describes that California alone requires 1.6 million domesticated bee colonies to pollinate their 800,000 acres of almond trees. Without the help of honey bees, California would lose its largest overseas export, almonds (Grossman). Along with California, honey bees are essential for over one hundred of the world’s largest food crops (Grossman). The agriculture industry worldwide would not survive without the help of honey bees.
As vital to crop growth as honey bees are, pesticides are also necessary for large scale commercial farming. However, as more studies are conducted on pesticides, they have proved increasingly harmful to honey bee populations. One of the most used pesticides worldwide is neonicotinoids. Currently in the United States, neonicotinoids can be found on “95 percent of corn and canola crops; the majority of cotton, sorghum, and sugar beets; and about half of all soybeans,” all of which depend on honey bees for pollination (Grossman). Not only are honey bees directly exposed to numerous pesticides when pollinating crops, but they can be exposed to the pesticides miles away from where it was first applied. Roni Dengler describes in his paper “Neonicotinoid Pesticides are Slowly Killing Bees” that neonicotinoids are water soluble, meaning that during a large rainstorm or routine crop watering, neonicotinoids escape into waterways as runoff and are absorbed by the roots of trees and flowers in the surrounding habitat (Dengler). 
In addition to the harmful effects of pesticides leaving fields as run off, there are also problems created by pesticides that remain on the crops. It has been discovered that pesticides can actually stay with a plant through its entire growing process when it was previously thought that pesticides were only present while the crop was in bloom. Due to the fact that pesticides linger with crops, honey bees are vulnerable to pesticides throughout the entire growing season and exposed to higher doses than previously thought which can create a number of health problems (Dengler). Despite that pesticides are killing bees, farmers continue to use them to increase crops yield. Both bees and pesticides are necessary for crop growth so a solution is necessary to protect both. 
Pesticides do not target just a single bee, they can bring down entire hives in the matter of a season. When a honey bee forages in a field for pollen to collect, a little bit of pollen from each bloom sticks to their body. All the pollen that is collected during a trip is then brought back to the colony. Over the course of a day, thousands of worker bees can bring in pollen from crops treated with pesticides. A study conducted by Jeffery Pettis showed that neonicotinoids alone can be found in 15.8 percent of pollen samples from hives near fields treated with neonicotinoids (Pettis et al). When pesticides are brought back to the hive and unknowingly stored, bees previously never exposed to pesticides are suddenly in danger to high numbers of chemical pesticides. 
Pesticides like neonicotinoids do not kill honey bees on contact. As exposure continues to increase, the queen bee of a colony can be put at a high risk seeing that she is fed large supplies of honey to keep her reproducing. In fact, with the pesticide neonicotinoids, “Some studies have indicated that [they] can lead to a decline in queen bees in a colony” which alters the reproductive abilities of the hive (Grossman). It has also been found that neonicotinoids, which are sprayed on 75 percent of crops, affect bee’s navigation abilities when returning to their hives (Grossman). If bees are unable to return to the hive, they cannot supply the colony with food and place strain on the queen’s ability to produce more bees. Also, a chemical known as clothianidin, a widely used neonicotinoid in Canada, reduces the social immunity behavior in honey bees. Social immunity is a tactic used where sick brood, adolescent bees, or dead bees are removed from the hive by other bees, which prevents disease and parasites from spreading. When bees are exposed to clothianidin it changes bee behavior to allow for sickly and dead bees to remain inside the hive and eventually causes death to the hive (Dengler). Pesticides cause a slew of issues but do not cause instant death to bees. As exposure to pesticide increases over time the more likely a bee and a hive will be effected. 
Pesticides not only attack colonies but they alter bee’s ability to pollinate efficiently. According to Keith Delaplane in his study "Understanding the Impact of Honey Bee Disorder on Crop Pollination", any disorder that a honey bee contracts can affect the ability of itself and the hive to pollinate in three ways: “1) By impairing pollination efficiency of compromised individuals 2) By impairing efficacy of compromised colonies 3) By reducing availability of pollinators, that is, killing bee colonies” (223-228). Pesticide exposure can affect an entire colonies ability to pollinate and survive. A decline in a bee’s ability to pollinate not only affects the hive but can be detrimental to surrounding plants that rely on bees for pollination (Grossman). As well hurting honey bee’s abilities to pollinate, chemical pesticide exposure increases the risk of the hive contracting parasites such as Nosemoa apis and Nosemoa ceranae which can cause colony collapse, a phenomenon where all worker bees die or leave the hive (Pettis et al). Research on Nosemoa apis has also found that it decreases the foraging and pollinating abilities of bees rendering them useless to the success of a hive and plants (Delaplane 223-228). Research is still ongoing to better understand issues such as colony collapse and how pesticides affect pollination abilities but without bees around to pollinate, farms of all sizes will be in trouble.
Despite a majority of studies linking pesticides directly to bee disorder, disease, and death, a recent overview of a collection of studies done on insects suggests otherwise. Christopher Cutler and Rachel Rix with their paper “Can Poisons Stimulate Bees?” look into how pesticides in low doses could actually be beneficial to bee populations. He describes a term called hormesis, which is a “biphasic dose response whereby exposure to lose doses of a stress can stimulate biological processes” (Cutler and Rix 1368-1370). He states that based on the research conducted on low doses of pesticide, they should be able to boost biological processes in bees such as reproduction (Cutler and Rix 1368-1370). Cutler reviews a study done to a close relative of the honey bee, the bumblebee. In the study, a formulation of bio-pesticides was topically applied to the bumblebee at concentrations less than what is recommended in the field. The bumblebees used in the study showed a significant increase in the number of offspring produced (Cutler and Rix 1368-1370). While the idea of using small doses of pesticides as bee stimulants still needs to be researched further, the notation that pesticides could be used to help increase honey bee population numbers is a notable positive.
       	Scientists are still working on a solution to honey bee die offs but so far can only offer a few suggestions to beekeepers and farmers. For the non-commercial beekeeper, staying aware of pesticide regimens and sprays on nearby fields is important to consider since pesticides can drift onto weeds nearby (Pettis et al). Countries in Europe have taken a few more drastic measures. The European Commission had plans in 2013 to impose a two-year ban on neonicotinoids in order to see if neonicotinoids are the cause of bee die offs. The results of the ban have not been published but by studying the effect of not using neonicotinoids may lead scientist to determine how harmful using neonicotinoid can actually be. However, pesticides will still be a large staple of commercial crop growth and exposing bees to pesticides is unavoidable but it is deciding if pesticide exposure is truly the problem or not (Grossman).
Agriculture could not succeed without the help of honey bees, as they are vital for pollination, or pesticides, as they produce higher crop yields. Pesticides are not an instant killer for bees but become more harmful as exposure increases. As honey bees reach the pesticide threshold with each encounter they become more at risk for many diseases and parasites. The relationship between pesticides and honey bees needs to be further investigated in order to determine if some pesticides more harmful than others such as neonicotinoids. If research on how pesticides may stimulate honey bees continues to be studied, farmers may be able to simply reduce the amount of pesticides sprayed on crops. Scientists continue to investigate further and hope to reach a conclusion that allows for a compromise between pesticides and the health of honey bees.



















Works Cited
Cutler, G Christopher, and Rachel R Rix. “Can Poisons Stimulate Bees? Appreciating the Potential of Hormesis in Bee-Pesticide Research.” Pest Management Science, vol. 71, no. 10, June 2015, pp. 1368–1370. Wiley Online Library, doi:10.1002/ps.4042.
Delaplane, Keith S. "Understanding the Impact of Honey Bee Disorder on Crop Pollination." Honey Bee Colony Healthy: Challenges and Sustainable Solutions, edited by Diana Sammatae, Jay A. Yoder, Taylor & Francis Group, 2012, 223-228.
Dengler, Roni. “Neonicotinoid Pesticides are Slowly Killing Bees.” PBS Newshour, 29 June 2017, http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/neonicotinoid-pesticides-slowly-killing-bees/. Accessed 2 October 2017.
Grossman, Elizabeth. “Declining Bee Populations Pose a Threat to Global Agriculture.” Yale Environment 360, 30 April 2013, https://e360.yale.edu/features/declining_bee_populations_pose_a_threat_to_global_agriculture. Accessed 2 October 2017.
Pettis, Jeffery S., et al. “Crop Pollination Exposes Honey Bees to Pesticides Which Alters Their Susceptibility to The Gut Pathogen Nosema Ceranae.” PLoS ONE, vol. 8, no. 7, 24 July 2013, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0070182. Accessed 20 September 2017.
