Letter to My Daughter
The excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter,” written by Maya Angelou brought a few interesting perspectives incorporated within her writing. Angelou begins writing about a girl who lived with her grandmother her entire life, that is until she moves in with her mom at the age of 13. With the change of scenery, moving in with her mother had taught her she could make a difference in the world along with how she could become a charitable woman some day with simplicity. Her mother speaks to her and tells her to enjoy the little things which can lead to happiness, which stuck with her, she believed she could She also speaks about maturity, which many kids do not do throughout the course of their lives. Angelou’s believes that we never truly grow up instead we act like we do by having getting married and then having children, along with paying off credit cards does not make us mature or grown up it, simply refers to how life goes in her eyes. Angelou firmly believes we are all kids at heart deep down regardless of our circumstances. She writes about how kids make their own place regardless of where they are, that they have their own homes where they can express themselves truly and feel safe because at home we are in our comfort zone. Later on, she meets a stranger after feeling insecure about her body it led to her indulging in coitus, which corresponded to a few weeks later when she realized she had become pregnant. Through the birth of her son, even through the hardships, she raises him without a father, and put the effort in to make him a good man. Seeing her son turn into a man who is caring father along with being a wholesome family man was her way of finding happiness due to the fact she saw what type of person she had raised. Through Angelou’s writing she incorporates a lot of rhetorical strategies to grab the audience's attention quicker along with more efficiently.
Many wondered what exactly lead to Maya Angelou writing her excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter,“ but their was one significant event in her life that triggered her to express herself through writing. According to the article, “Maya Angelou to Present Convention Keynote Address,” “Angelou spent her young childhood moving between her mother's and grandmother's. At age 8, she was abused by her mother's boyfriend, who was subsequently killed by her uncles. The event caused her to go mute for nearly six years, and her teens and early 20s were spent as a dancer, filled with isolation and experimentation.” (P 8)This illustrated why Angelou had decided to express her feelings within context. Going through the adversity she had faced at such a young age it lead to her not expressing herself at all for many years, which illustrates why it was important for her to let her emotions out along with expressing the way she truly felt. Being abused as a child led her to write the piece, Letter to my Daughter,” in which she incorporated rhetorical strategies. 
Angelou expresses within her writing a rhetorical strategy known as, “pathos” which appeals to the reader's emotional side, which is crucial because utilizing rhetorical strategies like pathos engages the reader within the text and makes it personal for them giving the writer empathy from the audience. Angelou incorporates pathos within her article, “Letter to My Daughter,” when she says, “When you go to school, the teacher will smile at you and you will smile back. Other students you don’t even know will smile and you will smile. But on the other hand, I am your mother. I tell you what I want you to do. If you can force one smile on your face for strangers, do it for me. I promise you I will appreciate it.She put her hand on my cheek and smiled. Come on baby, smile for mother. Come on. She made a funny face and against my wishes, I smiled. She kissed me on the lips and started to cry. That’s the first time I have seen you smile. It is a beautiful smile, Mother’s beautiful daughter can smile. I had never been called beautiful and no one in my memory had ever called me daughter. That day, I learned that I could be a giver by simply bringing a smile to another person.” (Angelou 25).  The usage of the rhetorical strategy proved to be quite effective. When we think about, as the audience along with being the reader we feel the need to become attached to something, we do not want to read something that is boring but instead something that is appealing to us. With reading what Angelou alluded to about the simplicity of where her happiness came from was a very heartwarming view. As we know, pathos appeals to the reader's emotional side, when we look in depth of the entire quote we can see the way Angelou set up her story. She began with talking about how her mother told her to always smile which is where she learned to become someone who could bring joy with the simple things in life. Also when she states how she was never told she was beautiful also appeals to the reader's emotional side because that is unfair, everyone is beautiful in their own distinct way and we should be told that. The biggest appeal to emotion in this quote was in the end when she learned a very powerful lesson of how she can change someone's day and make them happy with a simple smile; that itself was a very powerful emotional lesson. 
	Angelou also utilizes another rhetorical strategy to get her point across known as, “Ethos.” Ethos is credibility or the reliability of whoever is writing. When we are reading something we would like to know that information we are perceiving his actual credible and reliable sources are being used to build their argument. According to, “Academia.edu,” Maya Angelou is a, “Poet, writer, performer, teacher, director, and life- time African American activist. Among her many published works are a ve-volume autobiography….she wrote and read the poem On the Pulse of Morning at Bill Clinton’s presidential inauguration, at his request. It was only the second time a poet had been asked to read at an inauguration, the rst being Robert Frost at the inauguration of John F. Kennedy.” (Academia 1) The sources identifies many aspects of her life, even within her personal life along with how she was an active participator as a African American activist, which displays when she is talking about racial topics she has done her research.
 Angelou speaks uses her ethos credibility within her passage, It is displayed when in her excerpt, “Letter to My Daugher,” she states, “My real growing up world, in Stamps, was a continual struggle against a condition of surrender. Surrender first to the grown up human beings who I saw every day, all black and all very, very large. Then submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people, who I saw rarely.” (Angelou 4) This quote illustrates the type of community Angelou had to overcome and the adversity within where she lived shaped her into becoming who she was. Due to the fact that Angelou had background as a African American Activist it would explain why she chose to become so involved within her community, from what she had been through as a child it is understand that she would not want other children to go through the same obstacles she faced. The credibility of herself really helps the audience understand why she would use the rhetorical strategy ethos. 
	Maya Angelou also uses another significant rhetorical strategy in her writing which is known as logos. Logos is the usage of logic when conducted an argument. Logos displays the writer's reasoning skills along with how prepared they really were when they wrote the piece. For instance, in Angelou's excerpt, she states, “I am convinced that most people do not grow up. We find parking spaces and honor our credit cards. We marry and dare to have children and call that growing up. I think what we do is mostly grow old. We carry accumulation of years in our bodies and on our faces, but generally our real selves, the children inside, are still innocent and shy as magnolias.” (Angelou 8). This is the perfect example of logos to grab the attetion of the readers. First, Angelou provides a argument to elaborate on. After which, she backs that argument with a list of good reasons to why we do not simply grow up but grow old. This usage of logos illustrates the logic used in the excerpt is based of good reasoning skills and facts along with examples. Logos incorporated within the writing can prove to be difficult but the way Angelou uses it is resourceful along with brilliant. Angelou with her logic gets the attention of the readers, which makes us ask questions is she right, is that the case in my life as well, where did she form this example from. With the usage of logos, Angelou’s engages the readers to the context by the way she has constructed her excerpt. As the readers we begin to agree with her reasoning due to the fact her arguments are backed by solid reasoning which is hard to argue but it is easy to agree with. Incorporating logos within a excerpt can prove to be very beneficial to connect your argument with reasonable reasoning along with connecting the argument directly to the audience. 
Through Maya Angelou’s entire excerpt titled, “Letter to My Daughter,” she utilizes a lot of rhetorical strategies. The purpose of rhetorical strategies proves to be very significant for a writer to incorporate within their writings. Rhetorical strategies are very important to utilize within writing like Maya Angelou because it helps engage the writer along with the audience and forms a bond with them. There are various types of rhetorical strategies a writer can incorporate within his or hers writing but three of the most famous ones, and all three of these were utilized in the excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter,” written by Maya Angelou were ethos, pathos, along with logos. With the incorporation of rhetorical strategies they play pivotal roles like when Maya Angelou used the rhetorical strategy known as pathos, which appeals to one's emotional side. Rhetorical strategies like ethos which provide credibility are also important because it reliefs the readers that the writer actually knows what they are talking about and are credible. Credibility might be one of the most significant due to the fact if the audience did not know something that the writer wrote within their context instead of questioning whether it is true the readers know that the author actually knows what they are speaking about which reassures the audience they are in good hands. Another rhetorical strategy that is important as well is logos which is the usage of logic, which can also prove important when incorporated by a writer in a excerpt. The usage of logos displays that the author would know how to use reasoning skills when they write which is important. When are you discussing your side of the argument and the reasoning behind does not back up your argument it makes it look like a unprepared invalid argument. Logos shows that behind our reasoning we have legit reasoning behind it and shows the audience that the writer was prepared. Rhetorical strategies prove to be very important when writing that is why such a successful writer like Maya Angelou incorporates them within her except titled, “Letter to My Daughter.” 




















Work Cited


“Maya Angelou to Present Convention Keynote Address.” Maya Angelou to Present Convention Keynote Address, The Asha Leader, 5 June 2012, 

. Academia.edu. Angelou, Maya. "Letter to My Daughter."
