
Let's   Not   Judge   a   Book   By   Its   Cover
Authors   often   use   rhetorical   strategies   to   deliver   one’s   message   when   writing,   or   talking
about   a   certain   topic.   These   strategies   often   make   one’s   topic   easier   for   an   individual   to understand   and   reflect   on   what   it   has   to   say,   along   with   how   they   may   respond.   Authors   must have   literacy   when   it   comes   to   mentioning   what   they   have   to   say   because   without   it,   an individual   would   not   be   able   to   feel   comfortable,   nor   know   how   to   claim   the   evidence   that   needs to   back   up   what   you   have   to   say.   Maya   Angelou,   an   African-American   poet   and   author,   wrote   a book   back   in   2009   full   of   nothing   but   wisdom.   The   book   was    New   York   Times    bestseller,   “Letter to   My   Daughter,”   which   was   dedicated   to   the   daughter   she   never   had,   she   wanted   girls worldwide   to   feel   beautiful   about   themselves,   and   not   let   anything   hold   them   back.   One   may encounter   tons   of   emotions,   as   well   as   life   lessons   that   Angelou   aspired   to   give   throughout   the book   and   life   events   she   went   through   as   a   child,   to   when   she   had   her   only   boy,   raising   him   all on   her   own,   learning   new   things   everyday.   To   all   women   in   the   world,   all   cultures,   sizes,   colors, and   races,   Angelou   aims   to   convince   these   women   that   one   should   devote   to   living   life   with   an actual   meaning;   proving   one   can   indeed   when   she   uses   all   sorts   of   different   types   of   rhetorical devices   to   express   herself   and   make   her   opinion   much   more   understanding   to   these   “daughters” worldwide.
Angelou   grew   up   with   a   loving   family.   Her   grandmother   raised   her   to   be   religious   along with   growing   up   to   be   very   innocent   compared   to   the   normal   kids   her   age.   She   then   moved   with her   mother   to   California,   living   an   awkward   teenage   life,   being   six   feet   tall   and   not   used   to getting   all   dressed   up   or   curling   her   hair   because   her   grandmother   didn’t   believe   in   hot   ironing tools.   Her   mother   was   fortunate   enough   to   work,   buy   her   good   clothes,   and   put   a   roof   over   her head.   Angelou   knew   her   mother   loved   her   for   who   she   was   and   all   she   wanted   her   to   do   is   smile and   be   happy   she   was   able   to   do   things   she   couldn’t   back   with   her   grandmother.   At   16,   she decided   to   have   sex   with   a   boy   after   being   persuaded   that   if   she   did,   her   “body   would   grow   up and   behave   as   it   was   supposed   to   behave,”   (37).   Nine   months   later,   she   gave   birth   to   a   little   boy, she   hadn’t   told   one   of   her   parents   because   she   thought   they   wouldn’t   accept   her   for   it.   After deciding   to   tell   both   her   parents   a   couple   weeks   before   she   was   due,   Angelou’s   parents   were shockingly   excited   for   her   and   supported   her   every   step   of   the   way   left   throughout   those   three weeks.   Angelou,   loved   her   little   boy   and   was   proud   of   the   man   he   grew   up   to   be.
Helen   Murdoch,   a   World   History   and   American   Government   teacher,   takes   ownership   of a   website   named    Helen’s   Book   Blog ,   where   she   analyzes   books   and   shares   personal   opinions about   what   is   needed   to   be   said   referring   to   the   topics   Angelou   talked   about.   Murdoch   shared,   “I got   choked   up,   laughed,   was   awed,   and   stunned   by   these   stories,”   (8)   proving   Angelou   had   her feeling   all   sorts   of   ways   due   to   what   she   encountered   from   her   childhood   to   having   a   baby   at such   a   young   age.   Murdoch   hopes   girls   all   around   the   world   will   read   this   book   and   realize things   happen,   you   have   to   make   the   best   out   of   every   blessing   and   lesson   that   comes   your   way in   life.   “Angelou   says   that   means   she   has   no   regrets   in   life,   takes   each   challenge   as   it   comes,   to feel   good   about   herself,   despite   some   tough   times,”   states   Murdoch,   intending   to   girls   of   all   sizes

 and   colors,   that   it   is   okay   to   live   the   life   others   aren’t   used   to   because   of   tradition.   Murdoch anticipates   people   need   to   accept   you   for   who   you   are   and   if   they   don’t,   that’s   on   them.
Angelou   was   very   truthful   about   her   convictions,   past   omissions,   and   was   not   ashamed   to tell   the   story   she   lived.   The    Fredericksburg   Free   Lance   Star ,   a   principal   daily   newspaper distributed   throughout   the   United   States,   Fredericksburg,   and   Virginia,   quoted,   “Written   in Angelou’s   beautiful,   poetic   style,   the   essays   feel   like   warm   advice   from   a   beloved   aunt   or grandmother,   whose   wisdom   you   know   was   earned,”   (Fredericksburg   14).   The   daily   newspaper hopes   it   will   aspire   women   to   feel   proud   of   who   they’ve   become,   throughout   the   struggles   life throws   at   one   from   day   to   day   to   shape   them   into   who   they   are   today.   Newspaper   headquarters put   it   in   the   daily   newspaper   for   an   important   purpose,   to   prove   to   women   worldwide,   that   they are   worth.   The   collection   of   life   events   are   there   to   both   inspire   and   encourage   women,   girls,   and daughters   of   all   ages,   that   if   she   can   go   through   millions   of   things   and   still   be   happy,   an individual   can   too.
Rhetorical   strategies   including   Ethos,   Pathos,   and   Logos   are   all   found   in   “Letter   to   My Daughter,”   because   Angelou   was   inspired   to   tell   her   story   to   her   so   called   “daughters”   all   around the   world,   through   convincing   them   that   it   okay   for   them   to   be   who   they   are,   emotionally   telling them   that   it   all   gets   better,   and   persuading   them   that   everything   happens   for   a   reason.   It   all happens   to   develop   every   women   out   there   to   turn   themselves   into   strong   independent   loving souls.   Maya   Angelou   is   definitely   credible,   being   a   highly   respected   American   poet   and memoirist,   who   wrote   many   autobiographies,   poetry,   and   was   on   television   for   over   fifty   years. Angelou   pulled   many   people's   heartstrings’   when   she   told   the   world   that   she   didn’t   like   the   way her   body   was   formed   and   unfortunately,   did   some   inappropriate   things   thinking   it   would   solve

 every   piece   to   the   puzzle,   yet   ended   up   having   her   pregnant   at   such   a   young   age,   terrified   of letting   her   parents   know   what   she   was   going   through.   Angelou   claims,   “Today,   over   forty   years later,   when   I   look   at   him   and   see   the   wonderful   man   he   has   become,   the   loving   husband   and father,   the   good   poet   and   fine   novelist,   the   responsible   citizen   and   the   world’s   greatest   son,   I thank   the   Creator   that   he   was   given   to   me,”   (Angelou   45).   Angelou   tells   her   true   experience about   the   only   child   she   raised,   all   on   her   own,   and   is   truly   proud   of   the   loving   husband   and father   he   has.
   Ethos   is   the   matter   of   finding   out   if   you   can   trust   what   you   are   reading,   and   if   it   sounds credible,   because   if   it   doesn’t,   it   can   turn   out   to   be   nothing   but   lies.   Logos   are   facts   and   statistics that   the   author   actually   states,   proving   what   they   are   saying   is   logical   and   believable.   Pathos   is when   the   author   can   actually   make   you   feel   a   certain   type   of   way   that   either   makes   you   feel really   sad,   excited,   mad,   or   in   a   state   of   laughter.   In   “Identifying   the   Rhetorical   Tools,”   Mona Marshall,   an   instructor   asserts,   “People   want   you   to   believe   their   product,   their   answer,   or   their opinions   the   right   one,   and   ethos,   logos,   and   pathos   are   the   tools   they   will   use   to   get   you   to believe   them,”   (21).   Marshall   demonstrates   that   if   one   would   practice   every   morning   by   simply reading   a   cereal   box   and   paying   attention   to   the   pictures   and   words   that   the   brand   uses   to convince   you   that   it   is   the   best   cereal   out   there,   an   individual   would   certainly   know   how   to   tell apart   ethos,   logos,   and   pathos   in   a   heartbeat.
In   “AP   English   Language:   Five   Ways   to   Identify   Rhetorical   Devices,”   Albert   Io,   an   AP student   blogger   explains   if   one   “Reads   carefully,   knows   their   rhetorical   devices,   knows   the audience,   annotates   the   text,   reads   the   passage   twice,   and   has   a   key   takeaway,”   (5)   one   will   be   on the   right   track   to   knowing   how   to   read   a   text   and   have   the   ability   to   tell   the   rhetorical   devices
 apart.   Io   claims,   “Reading   carefully   may   seem   common   sense;   however,   this   is   the   most   crucial strategy   in   identifying   rhetorical   devices.   We   are   sure   that   you   have   heard   that   you   must   read carefully   before,   but   in   this   case   you   must   read   carefully   for   persuasiveness.   If   you   find   that some   aspect   of   the   work   is   particularly   convincing,   then   there   is   a   rhetorical   device   at   work.   This simple   strategy   of   finding   rhetorical   devices   will   allow   you   to   quickly   find   these   devices,   which is   often   half   the   battle,”   (1).   Io   proves   that   one   is   capable   of   finding   ethos,   pathos,   and   logos,   an individual   just   needs   to   actually   pay   attention   to   the   text   and   read   it   slowly,   in   order   to   find   each and   every   one   of   those   rhetorical   devices   and   develop   strategies   that   will   help   them   for   the   rest   of their   lives.
Angelou   included   using   tons   of   pathos,   appealing   to   an   emotional   sequence   of   her   life where   she   didn’t   feel   happy   with   her   body,   to   feeling   as   if   her   parents   wouldn’t   accept   her   for being   pregnant   at   sixteen   years   old.   Angelou   managed   to   grow   from   different   places   she   has lived   in   the   world   and   turned   herself   into   an   independent   strong   woman,   having   the   ability   to raise   a   great   young   man   with   no   father   to   her   son   to   help   her   out.   Rhetorical   strategies   help   me   in tons   of   ways.   They   actually   make   one   want   to   read   the   text   an   individual   is   observing   about   a million   times.   These   millions   of   times   people   go   over   and   over   them,   help   one   realize   what   the author   is   really   trying   to   say   and   how   they   are   expressing   their   feelings   about   it.   One   can   then   tell apart   the   persuading   part,   the   facts   and   statistics   part,   and   the   emotional   part   of   the   whole   text   to get   what   the   author   is   saying   overall   and   what   he   or   she   wants   to   really   do   about   it.
Many   different   sorts   of   tools   and   how   they   are   used,   are   very   effective   in   real   life. Whether   it’s   simply   using   a   protractor   to   get   the   correct   measurement   for   a   math   problem,   or putting   on   eyeshadow   with   the   perfect   blending   brush,   to   learning   how   to   change   a   diaper   from
 youtube   videos,   one   eventually   picks   up   on   it.   Everything   one   learns   throughout   life,   either   took a   long   time   to   get   the   concept,   or   it   naturally   just   picked   up   on   you.   There   are   millions   of strategies   and   tools   people   learn   on   a   daily   basis   and   it’s   on   them   to   want   to   remember   it,   or   not. If   one   does   something   over   and   over   again,   chances   are   these   “things”   an   individual   learned   has definitely   picked   up   on   these   concepts,   and   they   will   go   out   there   and   show   others   because   of being   used   to   it.   These   different   sorts   of   tools   and   how   one   chooses   to   use   them   can   only   make an   individual   smarter   by   the   minute,   and   help   others   identify   how   they   feel   regarding   what   they are   talking   about.   Without   learning   new   concepts   in   life,   one   won’t   get   anywhere   and   will   always be   bored   of   not   being   able   to   do   more   than   what   is   asked,   due   to   not   being   taught,   or   them personally   not   challenging   themselves   to   learn   how   to   do   more.   Rhetorical   tools   develop   better writers,   and   these   writers   have   the   audience’s   full   attention   one   hundred   percent   of   the   time,   and that   is   from   the   text   being   interesting.   Great   writers   are   not   created   by   having   an   individual   who only   reads   because   they   have   to,   gets   books   assigned   to   read   and   looks   up   what   they   were   about on   google.   Readers   who   love   to   see   what   other   people   have   to   say   about   the   world,   are   the   ones who   most   likely   know   how   to   read   a   text   and   challenge   themselves   to   bigger   ones,   furthering one’s   knowledge   than   what   it   expected.   If   one   were   to   read   a   book   a   week,   they   will   later become   great   writers   and   catch   on   to   these   little   concepts   of   telling   apart   ethos,   pathos,   and   logos very   easily.   Angelou,   being   talked   about   by   many   different   authors   have   come   into   conclusion that   she   is   one   of   these   amazing   writers   who   knows   what   to   write   to   encourage   others   to   like reading.
In   Angelou’s   book,   she   faced   many   challenges   that   changed   her   from   decade   to   decade, which   later   developed   her   into   the   woman   she   was.   Angelou   moved   from   country   to   country,   as

 time   went   by,   which   had   her   feeling   so   out   of   place   not   living   the   life   she   felt   she   deserved   to live.   Angelou   knew   California   was   going   to   be   a   great   change   to   her   life,   for   the   better,   or   worse. California   would   possibly   lead   her   to   growing   and   developing   into   a   woman   she   pictured   herself being.   Yes,   it   actually   changed   her   life   for   the   better   because   she   ended   up   having   a   child   and becoming   a   famous   author   and   actor.   This   not   only   shows   that   Angelou   struggled   through   life, yet   it   proves   that   without   struggles,   one   will   not   make   themselves   into   the   strong   person   they strive   to   be   in   the   future.
All   in   all,   Maya   Angelou’s   book,   “Letter   to   My   Daughter,”   has   many   different   meanings to   it,   mainly   being   don’t   judge   people   for   how   they   look,   talk,   dress,   and   live   their   lives.   People struggle   on   a   daily   basis   and   people   need   to   accept   the   fact   that   everyone   has   a   struggling   period in   life   that   shapes   them   into   a   powerful   individual.   Live   life   with   a   meaning   and   accept   who   you are   and   where   you   came   from,   because   it   may   not   of   been   easy.   One   can   turn   into   an   influential person   in   life   just   as   Maya   Angelou.   Angelou   loved   reading,   look   who   she   turned   out   to   be,   a famous,   loved   writer.   This   not   only   should   encourage   people   all   around   the   world   that   they   can develop   into   one   as   well,   but   to   believe   in   themselves   and   stick   to   it.   Therefore,   it   is   very important   to   read   texts   slowly,   pay   attention   to   keywords,   look   up   every   possible   source,   search for   facts   and   statistics,   and   emotions   the   author   uses   to   realize   what   they   are   really   trying   to   put out   there   for   you   to   understand,   which   could   all   change   you   to   becoming   the   best   YOU   have   ever been   in   life   and   invigorate   others   to   do   so   as   well.
Works   Cited
Angelou,   Maya.   “Letter   to   My   Daughter . ”    Signature   Reads .   Web.   9   July   2015.
< www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp
=email&share=blogpost >.
Io,   Albert.   “AP   English   Language:   Five   Ways   to   Identify   Rhetorical   Devices.”    Albert   Blog.    Web.
14   Jun   2016.
<https://www.albert.io/blog/ap-english-language-5-ways-to-identify-rhetorical-devices/>. Marshall,   Mona.   “Identifying   the   Rhetorical   Tools.”    Slide   Share.    Web.   10   July   2011.
<https://www.slideshare.net/monamars/identifying-the-rhetorical-tools-of-ethos-logos-85
59764>
Murdoch,   Helen.   “Review:   Letter   to   My   Daughter   (Maya   Angelou).” Helen’s   Book   Blog.    Web.
19   Feb.   2010.
<http://www.helensbookblog.com/2010/02/review-letter-to-my-daughter-maya.html>. “Penguin   Random   House   Network.”    Fredericksburg   Free   Lance   Star.    Web.   2017.
<http://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/3929/letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-ange lou/9780739370391/>.