It's Not Easy 





Poverty is an inescapable human state of not being able to give a standard level of sustenance, water as well as having shelter. It exists in each nation in fluctuating degrees, and it took long enough to decline drastically in the near future. In the late 1950s, the poverty rate was around 22 percent, with barely short of 40 million Americans living in destitution. The rate declined consistently, achieving a low of 11.1 percent in 1973. The United States is viewed as the wealthiest nation on the planet, but then many occupants still live in poverty. A standout amongst the most imperative parts of conceptualizing how poverty impacts individuals is to comprehend that it is something other than not having additional funds. Many individuals cannot escape poverty because of racism, little education and lack of healthcare. 

	Most white society ignored black poverty throughout history and African Americans struggled through poverty. African Americans were paid in cash because of a menial job and were not eligible for social insurance programs. Menial are jobs that pay badly and require little skill to do, most blacks had these jobs and because of these menial jobs their social insurance would be taken away causing more impoverishment, not having income support for blacks.  White widows were known as beneficiaries, they received advantages and payment for death that is insured. For black widows, they didn’t receive the same consequences and did not participate in this because the white felt like it was separate, leaving the equal part out that the supreme court rule made in 1896. “So blacks continued to be barred from full participation because the country operated under the  doctrine adopted by the Supreme Court in 1896”(Alma Carten). The whites didn’t care it that it wasn’t equal between the African Americans nor did they get discriminated for it. African Americans were more likely to be in poverty than Americans. In The Immortal Life of Henrietta’s Lacks the scientist and doctors made a profit of her immortal cells without letting the family known for years. Rebecca Skloot a researcher of Henrietta explains that a white man was in the same predicament as Henrietta and he knew how much money they made and who was responsible for his cells, he also hired a lawyer. “They didn't know that on the other side of the country, a white man named John Moore was about to begin fighting the same battle. Unlike the Lacks family, he knew who'd done what with his cells, and how much money they'd made. He also had the means to hire a lawyer.” (Rebecca Skloot) If Henrietta’s family weren’t black and poor would they get more attention for their case? 

During 1945’s, it was hard to become a successful African American. African Americans lived in the poorest territories with the most awful offices, and also had awful paying jobs that could only manage to afford their housing income. The bad financed schools were likewise in these areas made it difficult to keep an education. The south created a philosophy that if African Americans have little education they would just stay in their place meaning that African Americans wouldn’t go far in life by living a poor lifestyle resulting in poverty. In the novel The Immortal life of Henrietta’s Lack, it took Henrietta’s family twenty-five years to know what her cells had meant to the scientific world because they were blinded to what the doctors were doing and what it meant to have immortal cells. Henrietta and her family grew up in poverty and had very little education growing up. “She knew about harvesting tobacco and butchering a pig, but she'd never heard the words cervix or biopsy. She didn't read or write much, and she hadn't studied science in school. She, like most black patients, only went to Hopkins when she thought she had no choice.” (Skloot) Henrietta had no idea what was happening to her body, by having lack of education it was a huge disadvantage in her life. Doctors even drew some of the family’s blood to find genetic markers of their mother’s cells. The scientist and doctors were trying to hide this legacy from the family and making profit off HeLa cells, by the family being uneducated time was wasted and no financial benefits was made to the family. Having an education can have a toll in living in poverty. 

It is hard for people in poverty to have access to healthcare. People in poverty are more likely to have health care difficulties because they treat themselves and cannot afford medicine to be treated in a timely manner. Families living in deeper levels of poverty have no money to even cover out of pocket medical funds and even a visit to the clinic. In the novel Mud bound, Florence who is living on the farm as well as Laura, Laura’s Husband Henry and their two daughters had to move on to the farm too, Henry asks for Florence help with nurturing his two daughters when they are sick. Instead of going to an actual doctors Henry hired Florence to heal his two daughters, Florence gives them the right nurturance and does everything she can to make them healthy again. Henry did not have access nor money for medicine and a doctor because of the house he wasted money on causing his family to live on the farm. Americans living at the base of the salary dissemination frequently battle to meet their fundamental needs on exceptionally constrained earnings. 

	Opponents of these views present several arguments. They argue that racism was not the reason Henrietta’s family did not make profit and stayed in poverty. They also claim that education is not an excuse for not knowing what’s happening to your body. Furthermore, they emphasize that healthcare is easy to have access to when your impoverished. 

	However, these views may be easily being refuted. The doctor does take every woman cervical cancer tissues that walks in Hopkins, doesn’t matter the skin color and it was a standard treatment. But around this time in the 1950’s a black woman can be targeted. White supremacy was happening around this time and white and blacks still wasn’t together as one. “When you understand the incredible web of racism which gripped this country in 1951, it becomes very hard to look at any black person living in that time. . (Ta-Neshi Coates). Henrietta’s family could’ve had justice for their mom and wife but being a black family in poverty as effected their education and health.  



I come to conclusion that the time that this matter has happened makes it hard to escape poverty when racism, little education and lack of healthcare occurs in a family. All blacks and white were still segregated, there were still white privileges that blacks didn’t have, healthcare opportunities that required funds, and education that wasn’t affective. 








Work Cited 

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.





Carten, Alma. “The Racist Roots of Welfare Reform.” The New Republic, 22 



Aug. 2016, newrepublic.com/article/136200/racist-roots-welfare-reform.



“Education and Civil Rights.” History Learning Site, www.historylearningsite.co.uk/the-civil-



rights-movement-in-america-1945-to-1968/education-and-civil-rights/.

