Purple Hibiscus and Freedom
Freedom is an essential part in the growth of people. Freedom is the way people become who they are. In the novel Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, freedom is one of the main themes of the story is freedom. She depicts in the novel how a person can be affected if their freedom is restricted. While reading the novel, a reader may ponder on how the author presents a theme of the novel. Adichie does this through the use of characterization, setting and symbolism.
Characterization is one of the literary devices that Adichie uses to show the theme of freedom. Characterization is the way an author describes and creates a character. Adichie depicts freedom in her characterization of Kambili. Papa has a strict control over the lives of his children and does not give them much freedom. This makes Kambili oblivious to normal things that happen in the world. For example, Kambili could not understand why Father Amadi was dressing the way he was and playing soccer with the children. Characterization is also used to show the theme of freedom in the character of Father Amadi. For instance, Father Amadi was different from other religious figures that Kambili had grown accustom to. This signified the freedom that Father Amadi lived with. For this reason, Kambili was confused and questioned Father Amadi because she was not exposed to this type of freedom. Characterization is a well utilized tool in this novel. According to an article written by David Corbett, he says a contradiction is one way of creating a compelling character.  (Corbett, “How to Craft Compelling Characters”) Corbett states,
This complexity, which seems to particularly manifest itself during times of stress or conflict, is what can make a person inherently unpredictable, setting the stage for the kind of surprising behavior that can keep readers enthralled, wondering what might happen next. ( Corbett, “How to Craft Compelling Characters”)
This contradiction or complexity is seen in Papa. He is nice, caring and a role model to the people of his community. On the other hand, he is a dictator and is cruel to his family. This two faced personality created for the character of Papa imprints anger or irritation in the mind of the reader which they carry on throughout reading the novel. The literary device characterization is used by Adichie to show the theme of freedom.
	Setting is also used in showing the theme of freedom. Setting is the time and place where a story is set. In Purple Hibiscus, Kambili and Jaja’s level of freedom change depending on where they currently are. A setting in the story that illustrates freedom is Aunty Ifeoma’s house. During Kambili and Jaja’s stay at Auntie Ifeoma’s house they have the freedom to do as they please. Jaja develops a hobby of gardening during his stay at his aunt’s house. This is something that Jaja could not have done if he was in his own house. Including the setting of Aunty Ifeoma’s house, the setting of their own home connects to the theme of freedom. Every action and step is controlled by Papa. He has strict way in which he wants his family to carry themselves. In the setting of the home of Kambili, the absence of freedom is shown. These examples connect how setting is used in showing the theme of freedom. 
	Lastly, symbolism is utilized by Adichie in showing the theme of freedom. Symbolism is using symbols in showing an idea. Symbolism is used in the novel with the flower, purple hibiscus. Although Purple Hibiscus is the title of the novel, it is also a symbol used in the story. The purple hibiscus depicts freedom in the novel. The purple hibiscus grows at Aunty Ifeoma’s house. Aunty Ifeoma’s house is where Kambili and Jaja get their first taste of freedom. Another example of the symbolism of the purple hibiscus is the initial shock of Jaja when he first saw the plant. He had never seen that plant prior to this encounter. This is related to freedom in the way that Kambili was shocked as she was first exposed to the freedom that her aunt and cousins lived with. She was shocked at her cousin's interaction with their mother. Kambili did not know how her cousins could speak so easily and have so much joy and laughter with each other. The purple hibiscus symbolizes Kambili and Jaja’s realization of the freedom that they have been missing out on.
	In Purple Hibiscus, the main character Kambili and her brother Jaja are restricted of their freedom. When they were finally given a chance to have freedom, they begin to have a realization and grow as people. A theme in the novel was freedom. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie shows this theme through the use of characterization, setting and symbolism.
	







‘
Works Cited
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus a novel. Alonquin Books, 2003.
Corbett, David. “How to Craft Compelling Characters.” WritersDigest.com, 12 Apr. 2011, www.writersdigest.com/writing-articles/by-writing-goal/write-first-chapter-get-started/hooked-on-a-feeling.
