Informal Written Response 
Twenge’s “An Army of One: Me” 
Generation Me, the book, describes the term “Generation Me” as “the generation born in the 1980s and 1990s, often called Millennials.  But it’s really more of a description than a label for specific birth years—it describes people who take it for granted that the self comes first.”  In her excerpt from her novel, Jean Twenge compares and contrasts Generation Me with that of their former generation, the Baby Boomers.  Twenge strikes a chord with her younger audience, the audience belonging to Generation Me.  She begins her excerpt with a detailed account of the Baby Boomers, and then proceeds to blast Generation Me and their self-absorbing qualities.  However, as Twenge continues, she wins back the praise of Generation Me and concludes that the Millenials’ cannot be blamed for their high self-esteem.  Instead, parents, teachers, and the Baby Boomers themselves taught Generation Me that high self-esteem was paramount.  Twenge claims that “Generation Me is the first generation raised to believe that everyone should have high self-esteem (494).” and that “…some schools and teachers don’t correct children’s mistakes, afraid that this will damage children’s self-esteem (499).”  In the end, Twenge cites that Generation Me is not to blame for putting themselves first. Overall, Twenge’s thesis can be summed up through the statement “self-esteem is an outcome, not a cause (502).”  Twenge argues that self-esteem is best developed from children displaying good behavior and accomplishing tasks, not from praising and encouraging children to feel good about themselves for no reason at all.  To support her thesis, Twenge shows a connection between grades in school and self-esteem, saying that “self-esteem does not cause high grades—instead, high grades cause higher self-esteem (501).”  By drawing a parallel between grades and self-esteem, it is easy to see how children develop higher self-esteem because they performed well, not because they were told they were going to perform well, or even because they were praised when they didn’t do well.   
Twenge’s excerpt is organized into multiple subtitles that are bolded for emphasis.  These subtitles serve as a division of thought, and represent ideas that are separate yet still connected.  The subtitles allow Twenge’s essay to be easily navigated with smooth transitions from one concept to the next.  Twenge combines statistical data, surveys, and first-hand encounters to support her argument.  For example, Twenge cites that “In 2004, 70% of American college freshmen reported that their ‘academic ability’ was ‘above average’ or ‘highest 10%’ (501)” to show the effect of the American youth’s self-confidence in academics, a feat that is mathematically impossible.  In another survey, Twenge says that “60% of teachers and 69% of school counselors agree that self-esteem should be raised by ‘providing more unconditional validation of students based on who they are rather than how they perform or behave’ (496)”.  This highlights the shift of focus in schools from performance to boosting self-esteem, one of Twenge’s most compelling arguments for Generation Me.  On page 494, Twenge includes a picture of “Be a Winner, a Self-Esteem Coloring & Activity Book” to showcase the ridiculous ways parents encouraged their children and raised their self-esteem through the simple task of coloring.  Twenge even includes a chart characterizing Baby Boomers compared to Generation Me in “The Self Across the Generations” and what each generation desired.  Comparisons included Boomers’ desire to create a “philosophy of life” while Generation Me desired “feeling good about yourself.”  Once again, Twenge wants to show the large disconnect between the generations and place an emphasis on Generation Me’s self-absorption.  All in all, Twenge included multiple evidences to support her thesis and presented a logical, clear, and concise argument.  Her excerpt’s organization adheres to the principle of “form follows function,” meaning that her work is primarily based upon the function of each example of evidence or method of organization.   
 
