The Wife of Bath and her Mixture of Stereotypes
     In Geoffrey Chaucer’s masterpiece, The Canterbury Tales, the author comprises twenty-four stories told by different characters within the novel.  The characters, or pilgrims to be exact, are all making their travels to Canterbury and decide to tell each other tales to entertain themselves along the way.  One of these is told by the Wife of Bath, a well-travelled and – experienced – woman.  Canterbury dwells in comparison to her other destinations, and her travelling accomplishments dwell in comparison to the accomplishments in her love life. Nevertheless, her representation in the story is complex, swaying the reader in different directions as he tries to decipher just what she is about.  Chaucer creates a character that exemplifies both examples of negative stereotypes about women as well as examples of proto-feminism, depicting a character that represents limits women faced in defining themselves.
     In creating the Wife of Bath character, Chaucer took influence from misogynist writings found in the medieval church.  These writings unsurprisingly depicted men as the superior form of human nature and held the acts of celibacy and virginity in high regards.  Those, along with St. Jerome’s opposition toward a tract written by Jovinian, a fourth century monk, in which he proposed marriage as a positive good rather than a necessary evil, gave Chaucer a great bit of antifeminist material to base his character on (282).  The Wife of Bath character, with her five 

 2
husbands and adventurous travels, serves as a contrast to the sexist writings that had appeared over the years and made their way into the author’s hands.
          As the Wife of Bath gives her introduction, we learn about her adventurous and sexual past.  This is where Chaucer makes use of the negative stereotypes, seemingly including every one he can think of.  She comes off reminiscent of the secondary characters seen often in stories where the woman’s free-thinking and openly sexual nature is passed off as comedic relief.  Her five marriages play a large part in her reputation and negative stereotypes – instigating rumors implying that she cannot keep a husband or had merely grown bored from the last one.  The many travels she boasts about could have possibly been misconstrued as her having too much freedom and not being under the control of one of her husbands.  She takes pride in her actions, despite her positivity adding to the negativity surrounding people’s assumptions of her.  However, this further develops her character as a contrast to how women were generally depicted then.
     As Tristn Lambright writes in her discussion board post on this topic, the Wife of Bath asserts herself early in the prologue, “Who painted the leon, tel me who?” (698).  Contrasting her backstory in which she had come off as how the stereotypical woman was often depicted, the Wife of Bath begins to challenge her mostly-male audience.  Chaucer starts to suede the readers’ opinion on the character at this point, making them pay closer attention to the details of her story.  The Wife of Bath’s rotation through husbands was not the result of her desire to expand her sexual palette, but was merely the result of not being challenged enough.  If her husband at the time did not challenge her in any way, she felt there was no reason to submit, as seen where she says, “In which they were bounden unto me - / Ye woot wel what I mene of this, pardee. / As 
 3
help me God, I laughe whan I thinke / How piteously anight I made hem swkine” (205 – 209).  The Wife is obviously questioning her role in society, especially compared to man’s.  
     It could be argued that the Wife has taken advantage of her husbands.  One could look at the text, take the one previously cited for example, and interpret it as the Wife having the men wrapped around her finger, satisfying her needs instead of vice versa.  This failure of submission results in her boredom, ultimately seeking another man to serve her better.  I would imagine this sort of action would be considered incredibly controversial at the time by the general public.  I would imagine a woman so forward and free-thinking at that time would have instantly been construed as nothing but the equivalence of a whore, anything but a rightful suitor to a man.  It is even a clearer conception seeing it through the eyes of the members of the church. 
     While I can see the points of that argument, I think it is precisely Chaucer’s point.  Around this time, and for a very long time after it, women did not often have the luxury of being unfulfilled by their husbands and being able to do something about it.  Nor were they ever depicted as being able to do it, whether it be in literature, art, etc.  This is where Chaucer seems to merge antisexist and proto-feminist stereotypes to create this strong and independent character.  While her actions tend to persecute her in a way that was generally frowned upon at that time, by today’s standards, it is applauded.  The Wife of Bath’s character can be seen as an early feminist pioneer.  
     Chaucer’s The Canterbury Tales is obviously a majorly influential work that is still be studied and dissected today.  The characters and themes still seem to resonate with people after all these years, an incredible feat for a work of fiction written so long ago.  The fact that Chaucer, himself a man of that time, was willing to include such a unique female character that would still be the 
 4
topic of discussion centuries later is incredible.  In fusing a mixture of negative and positive stereotypes, Chaucer created a strong and celebrated character that can serve as an early source of feminism.
