For the past couple years, the American citizens have been living in a reality where, just only one percent has full control over the power and wealth causing a huge inequality gap within the society. Due to that inequality gap, it has resulted in a widening between the wealthy and the poor causing a large percentage of Americans to receive an unlikely chance to ever realize their American dream’s no matter how hard they attempt to do so. The outcome of this situation has cause a huge plummet in economic growth for riches, a positive increase in poverty, and excessive risk making decision leading to terrible consequences. Furthermore, the inequality gap between the wealth and the poor has lead to one percent of society in control of power and wealth while, the other ninety-nine percent are left hoping for a financial miracle to come their way or just middle class workers earn their pay as employee for a company which is an unfair advantage.

	One statement agreeing that the large inequality gap between the wealthy and poor is causing an unlikely chance of the poor realizing their American dreams is that it has result in Americans to work for minimum wage or living off poverty, welfare, or food stamps. Since they are in America as a natural born citizen, they should be given the right to take advantage of every possible opportunity whether displayed or not. Which is why, Americans in the lower or middle class should be given the opportunity to receive a job where they are able to make possible more than or equal to the amount of the other one percent. By doing so, this would being “Creating the right economic conditions for job creation to ensure that there’s a strong demand for the low and middle class”. An increase in job employment would result in a positive growth in the economy rather than an increase in poverty.

	As well as giving the large percentage of society the right to receiving a high paying job, the government could also take action by helping boost income inequality in education and taxes. Allowing the government to help take over could definitely increase the chance of making the poor’s American dream to come as a simple request. In result of doing so, having an education will be in “ensuring they get the best start in life and the support they need throughout their education. As for taxes since the “Welfare systems often provide people with pensions, funded at least in part by the taxes or social contributions they paid during their working lives” thereby providing support to those who are in need.

In addition to the government taking action to help comply with the poor of the unfair climate they live in, giving a fair advantage to the poor as well can also allow Americans to gain access in future economic gains. This full share and economic gain can lead to a halt in income inequality. Therefore, “ownership should be broadened through a plan that would give every newborn American an opportunity share”. Allowing not only positive growth over the inequality gap today, but also it would also do the same for the future. Having to suffer as a low or middle class can be a serious stressor rather than taking the easier step by being a part of the economic growth.

The Opposing side views present several arguments. They claim that the inequality gap is not suppose be considered “fair”, but more of a principle. They also view that one percent of the most powerful and wealthiest people that are in control of wealth are well known. Moreover, they suppose that any alteration to the inequality gap could result in an effect on taxes services.

However, these views may easily be refuted. Although the inequality gap is considered to be a principal instead of fairness, it can possible lead to a large percentage of poverty in our society causing most likely many families or couples fighting trying to be able to make a living out of themselves. Though some of the most famous businessman and women are considered to be one percent of the gap there may also be  a consideration a random person that receive a quarter of million dollars from a game show, lottery, sweepstakes, or etc. Finally, while one may suppose that any alteration to the inequality gap could cause result in an effect on taxes services then again with the help the government to appeal a law over taxes we are able to possible overcome the tax situation.

In conclusion, the inequality gap between the wealth and poor is considered an unfair advantage causing an unlikely chance of the poor realizing their American dreams is that it has result in Americans to work for minimum wage or living off poverty, welfare, or food stamps; helps boost income inequality in education and taxes and should give a fair advantage to the poor as well can also allow Americans to gain access in future economic gains. The dilemma with wealth and poor relies on the fact that America is a system control by democratic politician that believe in what is best for them instead of what is best for America. Hoping soon or later America would soon get its “fix”
