Christmas Traditions
Decorating for Christmas as a child is one of my most cherished memories.  My mom and I lived with my grandmother when I was a little girl, and I loved helping my grandmother decorate her home at Christmas time.  We started with bringing the Christmas tree down from the attic; then, we would put the tree up and trim it.  Finally, we added decorations throughout the house.  I loved being my grandmother's helper during this process, and I know she enjoyed it just as much.
First, I would help my grandmother get the tree out of the attic.  This was a huge task in itself because the box was enormous, the attic opening was rather small, and the wooden ladder that would fold down was very rickety.  It actually scared me, and I don't ever remember trying to climb it!  I was in charge of holding the ladder steady while my grandmother bravely climbed it to pull out the tree.  She would slide the long box to the edge of the attic opening and would very slowly slide it down the ladder until it reached the floor.  I was little, but I helped maneuver that big box as much as I could.  We would take out the trunk of the tree which was divided into three sections and assemble it by connecting the sections together in their proper order.  Then, we would place each tree limb in its slot one at a time, monotonously separating and fluffing the branches as we went in circles around the tree.  It was finally ready to trim!
Next, we would adorn the tree with lights and ornaments while listening to old Christmas records on my grandmother's stereo.  I fondly remember songs like "The Little Drummer Boy" and "White Christmas."  There is no sound quite like the sound of a scratchy record player, and those tunes would instantly set the mood, fill us with joy, and put us in the holiday spirit!  We would encircle the tree with colorful lights, then, add strands of silvery garland.  My favorite part came next which was opening the box that was filled with pretty glass ornaments.  They were so beautiful yet very fragile, and it wasn't unusual to find one or two broken ones.  There were also ornaments from my very first Christmas and ornaments that I had made in school and at church over the years.  My grandmother and I would carefully place them on the tree one by one, insuring that we did not leave any bare spots.  Lastly, we added the final touches to the tree with a gold star on the top and a red skirt around the base.  I thought the Christmas tree was simply stunning and could not wait to add presents underneath!
Once the tree was finished, my grandmother would add decorations to the rooms of her house, specifically, some handmade things.  She had taken a ceramics class years before and had made several Christmas pieces that she would put out such as a little red house with thick snow sparkling all over the roof and even a snowman sitting outside!  There was a light on the inside of the house that could be switched on.  Colored bulbs outlined the tiny windows so that when the light was turned on, the snow house would twinkle and come to life!  My grandmother would sit the house on an end table next to the couch.  She would arrange a white cloth underneath so that it looked like even more snow around the house, and she placed miniature evergreen trees with white tips onto the cloth.  I would sit curled up on the edge of the couch while watching the flickering lights and imagine spending Christmas in a life size version of the snow house!
Memories of decorating for Christmas with my grandmother are ones that I will always cherish.  I have many of her glass ornaments that I hang on my own tree, and the little ceramic snow house now sits on my mother's end table each year.  I still sit and watch as the lights twinkle and think back to those precious memories of my childhood at Christmas time.