
	Just like anyone else trying to prove something Maya Angelou chose to use an amazing amount of rhetoric to get her argument across. Rhetoric has three main parts that are used for their argument: pathos, ethos, and logos. The speaker uses these in hope that they can appeal to a reader's emotions or appeal to their logic or add credibility to what they are trying to say. For example using logos would be to include facts or statistics to let the reader see the logical side of an argument. They can also use pathos if they wanted the reader to feel an emotion making them feel more connected to the argument. In addition to these two is also ethos which helps to bring credibility to the speaker's argument by acknowledging a credible source. The way Maya Angelou used each of these was what helped to make her reading more engaging. Angelou wrote this book so that she could give her wisdom and knowledge to all the woman who saw her as a role model.  She uses her experiences from when she was growing up to help women get through their own hard times. It explains from the start of her life to how she grew up with her grandma and how that influenced her life. She then goes on to discuss how things changed for her when she moved to San Francisco with her mother and how that affected her. With the birth of her baby, she explains how it was not a burden to her being a teenage mother but a blessing especially having a family that stood behind her and supported her and her son.
	Angelou starts off by talking about her home life and what it was like growing up for her. She starts off by explaining the struggles of her having to deal with being looked down upon since she was living during a time of racial segregation and inequality. Angelou moved to Arkansas with her grandmother in 1931 and during this time black people were constantly being looked down upon and discriminated against white people. When being in her grandmother's store that she owned they still received racial prejudice from the white people that would walk into her store. These memories of hers help to further her argument on what she is trying to express to her readers about going through hard times and being discriminated and judged. She uses pathos here to try and relate emotionally to her readers. She wants her readers to understand that she may understand what they could be going through when it comes to discrimination of whatever it may be. This was a great way for her to be able to connect with the readers and for the readers to connect with her. 
	Further down into the excerpt we see Maya Angelou use her pastor as a source of credibility for her argument. This would what is known as ethos when discussing rhetoric used in an argument. Here she is talking about philanthropy and she starts it off by giving credibility to her pastor. The reason for this is because pastors and other religious figures are greatly known for being trustworthy to an audience. Here she is trying to encourage her audience to understand what philanthropy is. Angelou wants them to understand that philanthropy can be more than just giving money to causes. There are people who may feel the need to give to charitable causes when there is a disaster that occurs but yet they do not have the money necessary to do so causing them to feel bad. But Angelou goes on to explain that being philanthropic can be more than just giving money to a charity or to a person. Angelou explains that being a philanthropist is being a lover of mankind which means it is not necessary to give money to be a lover of mankind. She describes how she herself is charitable with her gestures and her words by making others feel better about themselves and the life they are living. Angelou is trying to get her audience to understand that it is ok for them to be charitable or philanthropist but without money. The thing is that there are already plenty of people that give money to charitable causes and not enough people that are willing to be nice to someone and brighten up their day. What Angelou is doing here is great because if they do choose to listen to what she is saying about her view on being charitable it could lead to a happier and more positive world. It is important for people to know how much they can give back with simply just their words and actions and how they treat one another. It can give others more hope and faith not only in themselves but also in the world. Later on, she goes on to explain how others will smile at her and that will cause her to smile back at them. With this, she notices how one small act of smiling at others causes a sense of place in this world knowing that there are other people looking out for you. She is happy to be known as someone that is charitable and giving and she wants her audience to feel or be the same way in a sense. This is one point that Angelou is trying to help get across to her readers and audience. With people being more positive and less negative it can lead to better things for the world. 
	Earlier on in this excerpt, Angelou explains how everyone needs their own place that they can live and no one else can enter. For her, that used to be in Stamps, AK somewhere at her grandmother’s house where she felt the safest and most in her place. But when she had to move to San Francisco she lost that. She felt out of place because everything was completely different from what she grew up around. The music, the people, the environment, everything was so much more different from what she was used to and she was out of place and no longer had her own place to retreat to. She chooses to use a form of pathos here to evoke a sense of emotion to her audience as she talks about how the change in her new environment was a big shock to her. What Angelou is trying to let her audience understand is that sometimes moving to something new can be hard. Whether it be a new job, new city, or a new school you can not let the new and changed environment get to you. Just like Angelou did when she moved there she would still embrace the parts of her life that she had when she was living in Stamps by doing little things such as just singing Christian hymns or wearing her hair in a natural braid like her grandmother used to do for her.
	Later on in the excerpt Maya Angelou tells the story of her and how she lost her virginity and became pregnant. It was with a boy who she barely knew and the moment she had left she knew she had regretted what had happened. Consequently after this had happened she became pregnant with her first child. Despite this not being planned it was one of the greatest things that had happened to her. In this part of her book she is again using pathos to further along her argument. Angelou is trying to say that things happen in life and not everything will go as planned. 



Works Cited

Maya Angelou (1928–2014) - Encyclopedia of Arkansas, www.encyclopediaofarkansas.net/encyclopedia/entry-detail.aspx?entryID=1085. Accessed 25 Sept. 2017.
1, 2012 Signature January. “Excerpt: "Letter to My Daughter" by Maya Angelou.” Signature Reads, 9 July 2015, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 26 Sept. 2017.
