Take A Knee, Take A Stand

	In 2016, Colin Kaepernick took a knee during the national anthem and sparked the nation. Kneeling to show respect for his culture, as well as other cultures, that are affected by systematic America. Racism and police brutality is sadly nothing new to our country. We can look back to the infamous Rodney King beating, and that was almost 20 years ago. African Americans have been oppressed since we arrived on ships, and the truth is, America has no intentions of letting us forget. In a perfect world, Kaepernick would be recognized as a national hero for being brave, adamant, and relentless. 
	We are supposed to live in the land of the free and the home of the brave, but only half of that statement is true. We are not a country of freedom; we are a country of fear. Minorities live in with this fear every day. A simple encounter with police, could result in loss of life, and it wouldn’t be the police to die. Countless black men and women have been gunned down without reason, with no repercussion to the individual responsible for the death. How is a person murdered and our system sets the murderer free? Kaepernick is a well-known and respected athlete. He wasn’t a bench warmer or back up, but the star quarterback for his team. Realistically speaking, Kaepernick is in another class. He is and will always be a black man, but his class wouldn’t be considered minority. His net worth accumulated to 126 million dollars, yet he kneeled for us. That makes his bravery to do what he thought was right so admirable. Someone that may never be affected by what majority of his culture fears, kneeled for us.
	Following his kneeling, Kaepernick was fined by the NFL and faced much scrutiny from the nation. However, he did not change his position. He stood with his people, which deserves a tremendous amount of respect. In our society today money rules everything, including morals. For Kaepernick to take a stand that jeopardized his position is beyond belief. I mean he worked his whole life to make it to the NFL, and even in knowing that, he did not forget who he was. He has donated to charities around the world and thrust himself into philanthropy. He even retired from the NFL, refusing to work a system that did not respect his beliefs and stand with his people. 
	A year later, Kaepernick’s kneeling has shifted from its intended purpose. What started as a way to show respect for his culture, has now been washed down with ignorance.  America has changed the narrative with the intent to distract us. The narrative is now that those who kneel are disrespecting those who fight for our country. A silly tactic to keep us focused on everything except the well-being of minorities. However, Kaepernick has not kneeled in vain. We will not be distracted, and we will not be silenced. So long as minorities are treated with such inequality, there will be a relentless spirit in our activist. The more public figures that take a stand against this oppression the better. What would happen to America if minorities that changed their class, refused to entertain until their fellow people are treated fairly? 



Reference: http://www.latimes.com/sports/nfl/la-sp-chargers-kaepernick-20160901-snap-story.html
