My Mission Statement

Freshman Seminar

9-19-17



	Sometimes in life you can’t always take the path others expect you to take. No one, including myself, would have thought I would be attending this university my freshman year of college. I don’t say this because I see this university as a low-end school, but because of the high standards set by those around me and myself throughout my life.  My teachers and family automatically assumed that because of my high level of comprehension and excellent grades as a child in school, I would receive a full scholarship and be on my way to a life of endless scholarships and success.  I started to awaken from this dream in the 8th grade when minor quirks started to become daily struggles.  These struggles caused me to question who I thought and had been told I was and would become from an early age.  Continuous doubts caused me to question who I was and what I would be able to accomplish in life.  After graduating high school, rather than voyaging out to test the waters of adulthood, I decided to stay local to further develop mental and emotional stability.  My mission at this university is to continue my journey of self-discovery and find my place in society.

	There are three core values that drive my mission- Seek truth.  Serve others. Stewart creation. While attending Christian School, I learned that if one is to carry out these key principles, they will help guide our personal missions and create structure for our lives. My attendance at this university contributes to the development of these core values. I am able to seek truth by gaining knowledge and being inquisitive in my courses. Seeking truth isn’t strictly about academics, but involves how one operates “on stage and behind the curtains”. This university allows me to serve others by modeling the school’s core values, EXCIDA, Excellence, Civility, Integrity, Diversity and Accountability. These key values of this university also assist in stewarding creation by acknowledging the common courtesy due to all mankind. 

	At the age of 18 and only one month in college, my mission is to set and achieve goals while learning about and improving myself.  These are the first steps to taking on greater responsibility and achieving personal success.

