Class Essay: “The Dreamer” by Junot Diaz

	Have you ever thought about having your mother incarcerated to fulfill a personal desire? Not due to a life or death situation but an internal quest for personal gain. Dreams and the quest for knowledge often cause people to take extreme measures that others would never consider. These radical actions are especially true in impoverished environments, such as the one Junot Diaz talks about in his eye-opening story, “The Dreamer.” Despite the setting of Diaz’s, "The Dreamer", being in a Third World-country, multiple themes such as external discouragement, strong willingness, and courage are a part of the daily lives of those living in present day society. 

	In “The Dreamer” Diaz explains the story of his ambitious mother, and how she made it out of the poor “campo” of the Dominican Republic, to New Jersey. His mother was raised by his grandmother, in the mountains of the Dominican Republic. As Diaz wrote, "Her own mother a straight-haired terror. Expected her to work on the family farm until she died or was married off…” The external discouragement was the abuse suffered by Diaz’s mother at the hand of her own mother, who denied her an opportunity to attend school. In present day society, people are constantly shammed and afraid to express their true ambitions and interest due to fear and rejection from those around them. For example, a young boy wanting to pursue cheerleading, which is not seen as a socially acceptable gender role. Male cheerleaders are typically stereotyped as gay. This is an external discouragement because despite their amazing athletic ability, they fear the verbal, physical and metal abuse because their sexuality is being questioned. 

	Strong willingness plays a major role in people pursuing happiness and internal peace.  One must be strong enough to block out what they are being told is acceptable, and continue to pursue their passions. Despite her mother’s expectations, Diaz’s mother had dreams of her own; she aspired to get an education, and become a nurse. Unfortunately, her mother was whole-heartedly against her daughter getting an education, to the point of beating her anytime she was caught near the schoolhouse. Time passed but she never lost hope or sight of her dreams. In life, one must decide what they see as invigorating, beautiful and important. This comes into play when people are discovering their own sense of fashion. Society is constantly telling people what they should and should wear, so those who wear anything that is not seen as “in” are criticized.

	Ironically, the oppressive dictator of that time, General Rafael Trujillo, “passed a mandatory education act stipulating that all Dominican children under the age of fifteen had to be in school… any parent keeping a child from school would be imprisoned.” When Diaz’s mother learned of this fact, she had the courage to use the law to her advantage. She demonstrates this courage when she reported her mother to a schoolteacher knowing that her mother would be penalized. The teacher reported her mother to the police and as a result her mother was arrested and placed in prison. These prisons were not like modern day institutions. All prisoners were broken mentally and physically, some not ever making it out of the facilities. Many people know what they want but are too afraid to act upon it. Those who are courageous have the mental strength to face their fears, and pursue their dreams. This is seen wherever people pursue their dreams and passions while continuing to face ridicule. An example of a courageous and controversial person in current day society is Kanye West. For years West has taken much verbal abuse from the public for his actions, but always continued on “doing him.” After the brunt of the storm passes you often see people begin to bandwagon the exact ideas and actions he was once criticized for. People that are openly themselves, even with negativity coming their way demonstrate true courage, and the world needs more of them.

	Like Diaz's Mother, to achieve personal goals, one must block out external discouragement, act upon strong willingness, and maintain courage to make a dream a reality. Who and what are you willing to sacrifice to fulfill your dream? Sacrifice is often affiliated with negativity but we must remember that times will come when we must sacrifice what we feel is important to jumpstart the next phase of our lives. These are the steps that every individual must take on their life journey, in order to achieve personal happiness and internal peace. How close are you to fulfilling your dreams?

