A Labor of LoveIn 2015, after being mostly a stay at home mom for fourteen years, I begansearching for a job. I was dealing with some problems financially and personally. I needed themoney, and I needed to find my purpose. I had very little work experience so I went to what Iknew, and that was taking care of kids. Little did I know that I would be introduced to aprofession through my job that would capture my attention and send me down a path thatwould change my life.I applied for a job at a local state licensed daycare center, and I was hired rightaway. I spent the next year floating from classroom to classroom, being put where I wasneeded. I worked with children of all ages, in every classroom, except for one. In the summerof 2016, the daycare director said that she wanted me to try working in the nursery. Shethought I would be a good fit with that age group. I was thrilled but a little nervous too. I knewfrom caring for my own babies how much work they required. I would also be responsible forfive babies at one time! However, I knew I could do it and would care for those children as ifthey were my own.I immediately knew that was the right class for me. I loved it! I enjoyed stayingbusy with all of the little details of taking care of babies from changing diapers and givingbottles to laying them down for naps and play time on the floor. It was heaven on earth. I had
lost a baby of my own four years before, and spending my days with the babies at work filled avoid in my heart that had been empty for so long. It was healing and therapeutic for me. Thatparticular daycare had many foster children that attended each day. I cared for children whohad lived in very sad circumstances and had been through so much in their short lives. I strivedto show them love and compassion. They needed me as much as I needed them.Each foster child had their own social worker that would keep a check on themand stay in touch with their foster parents and birth parents. I came to know and trust thosesocial workers, and I highly respected them. The social worker would pick the child up fromdaycare and take them for visits with their biological families or maybe to a doctor'sappointment. I admired and appreciated those individuals. Their job was not easy, however,their desire and intent was to protect the children under their care, and they went to greatlengths to insure that those children's needs were being met. These women and men inspiredme to pursue a career in Social Work. My heart broke for the children. It was a joy and aprivilege to look after them at daycare, but I wanted to be able to do so much more. I wantedto have the power to make their lives better. A social worker is a voice for these little ones whoare helpless and deserve a loving home in which to grow and thrive. I knew in my heart that if Iever made it back to college, I would study Social Work and learn how to be an advocate forfoster children.I often think of the foster babies I had in my class, their foster parents and socialworkers. They are my heroes, and they each hold a very special place in my heart. Though theywill probably never know, those people had a very significant influence in where I am today. I
am forever grateful for having the opportunity of being a part of those foster kid's lives andhope that I helped to brighten their days. They surely brightened mine, and someday I hope tobrighten the futures of other children like them.