Privacy Vs Facebook
	Even though Facebook is entertaining, the use of social networks has become invasion of privacy. An individual should not have to risk their privacy to enjoy the social networks they use. Social networking companies make it hard to stay private because to sign up you must agree to their terms and privacy rules. According to Facebook is using you “Facebook filed documents with the government that will allow it to sell shares of stock to public. Which means companies like LexisNexis can buy personal data. Facebook sells ad space to companies that want reach a specific audience which then comes different ad pop up, internet stereotyping and data aggregators. 
	Advertisers choose key words and important details such as activities, favorite books or more recently location to run ads specific to these details. Andrews tries to in steal the magnitude of online information Facebook has available. Google also plays a part in ad pop ups. They are taking what people has sent as mail or even web searches and using that information to sell ads.
Have you ever seen an ad that show something you just looked up? It is because companies like google is selling this information to produce ads on to their websites. “In Europe, laws give people the right to know what data companies have about them” in the united states we do not have that right. In the article Andrews feel it is very important to have that right because you never know what people are doing with that information.
	Internet stereotyping can be an effect of someone being denied health insurance or even being denied a job.” , With one study indicating that 70% of recruiter and human resource professionals in the united states have rejected candidate based on data found online”. A company called Spokeo gathers online data for employers, the public and anyone who wants it. It is important to be aware of the things that you are posting on the internet because you never know who is watching. The company uses ads like “Is He Cheating On You” to grasp people’s attention. All you would need is an email address and the company would run a data an analysis.
These searches or ads can also be play a major role in the acceptance of jobs and health insurance. 
	Data aggregation is like internet stereotyping in many ways, it is based on the likes and dislikes of other that is like what you have done. If you are trying to improve your credit and send an email to a divorce lawyer or even looked up the divorce process a data aggregator would see you as less credit-worthy. Data aggregators assume that some searches may reflect an individual’s own wellbeing when it may just be for a friend. There are laws where you can challenge false information on a credit report. There are no laws to reveal what they know about you. Companies like NebuAd install hardware on networks to monitor user internet activities and they transmit the data and use it in marketing. Data aggregators use the term redlining which is the practices of denying people opportunities based on the internet use.
	Facebook sells ad space to different companies that want to reach a specific audience which then comes different ad pop ups, internet stereotyping and data aggregation. In the article Andrews argue how important it is to be aware of the things you post you never know who watching and you never know who may be using your information for their own good. It is important to read the privacy agreements and read all of the background knowledge before signing up or using information on websites.
