Purple Hibiscus 

How did Papa use various forms of abuse in his household? And how did this relate to the theme? In Purple Hibiscus, Chimamanda Adichie uses euphemism, point of view, and theme to portray papa as the abusive character he is. In the book papa uses physical, mental, and emotional abuse to shame his family when they do not agree with him religiously, or when they do not do exactly as he wants them to do. 
The theme of the essay is religious abuse. Papa uses religion to make his family feel guilty when they do not agree with him religiously or when they do something that he feels is inappropriate for their religion. But papa is also portrayed as a man that loves and cares for his family. For example in chapter 5 papa expresses to Kambili how proud he is of her for coming out on top of her class, but later on in the chapters when she comes out second I her class instead of papa saying that he was still proud of her he was highly upset. Papa has 2 sides, he acts different in church and around certain people than he does in his own home around his family. Adichie uses euphemism when referring to his family. 
Some of the abuse that occurs in the story is told in the children’s point of view, but Kambili and Jaja still respect their father as if he did nothing wrong. There comes a time when Kambili herself was a victim of papa’s physical abuse, “I meant to say I am sorry that Papa broke your figurines, but the words that came out were, “I’m sorry your figurines broke, Mama.” 
											2			
(Kambili p. 10) Even though the family witnessed what happened to kambili’s figurines she was too frightened to explain what actually happened. 
In my opinion papa was abusive, even when he wasn’t physically abusive he still used other forms of abuse like emotional or mental abuse. Everyone should be entitled to their own opinion, even if it’s an opinion on religion. In “purple hibiscus” Papa Eugene and his family show a very different family dynamic. The children want to grow and become their own person, meanwhile they are still stuck ensuing papa’s strict religious ways. 
Papa is not a very traditional man but later on the individual nature of the family’s faith is explored when Kambili wants to know more about her ancestors and how they did things. Jaja and Amaka respectively reject their faith because of its link to Papa and colonialism.
