You Free
“The time has come for America to hear the truth about this tragic war,” says champion of civil rights, Martin Luther King Jr. who preached about the Vietnam War in a sermon, April 30th, 1967. In this sermon, he stresses the fact that silence can be betrayal and if an individual does not speak up and stand for what they believe in and what is right, we as a country, are going to get nowhere. It may be complicated to stand up for justice, although one can make a change. Whether it involves you getting in trouble, serving in jail, walking the streets alone, or even being hated by many, you spoke from your heart and that can make a change. Martin Luther King Jr was scorned because he opposed the war. King was upset with America, for the love of his country, he strongly believed and urged the fact that the Vietnam war was a bad idea from the start by the way America was dealing with racism, economic exploitation, and militarism.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. blamed President Johnson for the war. He accused him of bringing Westmoreland, the General, because he did not oppose the Vietnam war and was just creating more conflicts. Dr. King at the time, would influence young men to not battle for the United States, because they were leading the country to a national disaster. King didn’t care what people thought of him, nor if it meant him being the most hated man on earth. Fame and money did not mean a thing, and all that mattered was him standing up for the United States and what would be right for us and our country. Our country was becoming disloyal and not owning up to what they should believe in, and was on the totally wrong side of the rebellious movement, which offended many. Nearly fifteen million people in America were against the war in Vietnam. Not even the ones who “supported” it were fully with it. They weren’t given every detail of what was going on, therefore left them and their decision stuck in the middle, which influenced King to give this sermon to prove to them it was only right to oppose it. “Black Power” leader, Stokely Carmichael agreed with King and believed U.S people needed to take in all the facts that were being said and choose wisely.
United States assisted the French rather than Ho Chi Minh due to not wanting him to become the main leader of Vietnam. Dr. King’s main priority was not to put the United States “on blast,” yet show Americans how disappointed he was with his country. All King wished for was peace. He worked hard for peace and was a pacifist who always seen violence/war as unjust, which is why he won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964. The Providence Journal’s writer, James P. Brown believes in King’s approach to being fearless. He says columnists should never be scared to state what and how they feel towards certain things, even if it involves people not agreeing with what you believe in. Take a stance, don’t fear what your future holds, you may not be the only one who feels that certain way. In this way, others will realize what you have to say can be proven true.
In the sermon King mentions how important it is for one to be truthful. He says putting blame on someone else instead of taking responsibility for one’s actions, blinds an individual to their sins. The truth does set you free and there is no way around it. Dr. King would not of spoke out to what he believed in if he seen no point in it. In the actual sermon he claims, “Now, of course, one of the difficulties in speaking out today grows the fact that there are those who are seeking to equate dissent with disloyalty.” In his case, America was being disloyal. Freedom was top priority and that wasn’t being given to Americans. Promises were made which entitled the Poverty Program to aid both black and white people who were struggling. People worldwide had hope. The Vietnam war then came up and killed everything. America was putting their attention towards the war instead of helping with the program. So much money was being invested into it when there was a promise to help these poor individuals in any possible way they could.
Not only was the war ignoring these poor Americans, yet hurting and breaking families apart. Family members were being sent to battle when there were no promises that they would still come back alive to the U.S. Even injured men were being sent off to help in the war. Our nation was turning into a violent country when we needed peace the most. Segregation was going on at the time as well. Many blacks and whites were being killed at war and were never able to experience the equal-ness both deserve to share. The United States kept preaching about making peace with different countries, yet did not own up to it. Dr. King argued that America wanted to be non-violent, yet were doing the opposite. Violence and war was going on with Vietnam. It does make sense for them to claim they want to be at peace with others and not cause violence, yet they were. Sounds like hypocrites to me. This peace prize King was given not only showed him to continue fighting for it, yet forced him to even fight for peace even more. This “fight” I’m talking about isn’t intentionally talking about actual “fighting,” but making sure Americans get this peace, as well as show others to be peaceful. 
The fact then came up that Japan should be part of this and should be helping aid with this Vietnam war. Japan, Philippines, Malaysia, and other Asian nations ought to put in their part in. Especially because the United States has helped them at their worst. Although they did not. Americans were just digging themselves into more trouble by making this war about winning. U.S. was bombing in North Vietnam, which would only cause even more trouble, knowing it’d escalate to “Red China,” therefore causing problems with them, which was not a good idea. The United States was spending so much money at the time, they could not afford to get into another war right after this. It would just put them in so much more debt and make the country look bad. The country would suffer and it would probably turn into another economic depression. The United States wouldn’t just get the picture, and would continue to invest into military supplies for this Vietnam war. 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. stressed to many fellow Americans that there needed to be a change to all of this. If more people were to put their two senses in, eventually the U.S. would realize that they might of been wrong the whole entire time about it being a “good idea.” As previously said, Dr. King only wanted peace, and with that peace, his commitment to Jesus Christ. One ought to have faith that everything would change and there would be no more violence. He tried and tried to have compassion towards everything that was happening and get both sides of the story, yet came into conclusion that it was just wrong and it just needed to proven that it was a bad idea to get into this in the first place. Vietnam had quoted our Declaration of Independence and the United States government did not recognize them for it. France at the time, wanted to retrieve its colony so the U.S helped with that. Then the Geneva Accord came and we tried to sabotage it, which in all costs, was wrong of us to do. We instead supported a man named Diem, one of the countries most “ruthless dictators,” who murdered many of our people for unnecessary reasons. He was then overthrown and Hitler’s fan, general Ky came into the picture. Hitler’s all time favorite fan, yes, Ky, who we are still supporting to this day, but why is the United States trying to hide it from us? 
Dr. King argued in the sermon that people who once payed tribute to his speeches about segregation, now disagreed with him about what he had to say about the vietnam war. He didn’t understand why because he “did not see a thing wrong with that.” Dr. King only wanted to inform the public and youths to not get into this battle and refuse to fight in it. People who seen him as doing “wrong” were wrong themselves because all he intended to do was get our country at peace. If were going to continue with these battles it would just end up extremely bad. There would be millions of people dead, the United States of America would end up broker than ever, jobs would be lost, wages would be cut, people would be desperate for money and food, therefore causing even more deaths. Dr. King wanted to prevent all of that and make this country a better place. He encouraged others to stand up for their country and not fear what people had to say about their opinions. Opinions are important and without them, people would step all over one another and make every-one individual feel like a slave. Dr. King has always been viewed as a motivator and for him to come out with this sermon, people now hated him for it. Americans  now thought he was against his country and what they had to fight for when he wasn’t at all. He loved his country, and wanted the best for it. Violence was the absolute last thing he wanted in the world and tried to make a change for all Americans and open up their eyes on what was happening to the world and how it needed to change in order for the United States to get back on track.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. argues that we Americans need to get on the right side of the rebellion. Fairness and justice needs to come into play. Also, we need to become one and agree with how we spend our country’s money. Money and money that goes toward military defense is going to kill us as a nation. We need to be cautious where our money goes and how we use it. One’s tribe, race, class, and nation needs to be respected as well. This sermon proves to Americans and people all around the United States that love is important. It’s important to love one another because love is truly the key to a happy future. If one’s happy, violence is not in the picture and that’s what this country needs. Embracing this love and making it unconditional would influence others to do so as well. It’ll then become a reality. Dr. King believes God created us to love and that is important to remember and share with others.
He opposed the war in Vietnam because he is disappointed with the United States and their choices they have made towards this war. He truly loves his country and is not mad, yet fears what the future would hold for many Americans. King stressed the fact that we would continue falling into a downfall if we didn’t put a stop to all of this and open up the United State’s eyes and make them realize that how much money was being invested, was going to truly hurt America and its’ people. He was only saying the truth in the sermon. King was looking out for America not intentionally putting them out on blast. He wanted others to make a change, stand up for their country and state what they thought was right to do. Although, it might of made people hate him for what he had to say about his own “country.” Dr. King is an amazing motivator who only pushed for peace and love in this world. With faith, he believed his words would change the world and make Americans free again, which it later did, for the better.