Subject: Informal Interview Reflection 
Mr. Casey Smith is the former CEO and President of Company Management, an affordable property development and management firm headquartered out of Anytown that owns real estate across many states across the southeastern United States. While I was home for fall break I interviewed Mr. Smith face to face at Company’s corporate office. I chose to interview Mr. Smith because of his entrepreneurship, business ventures, and a diverse portfolio including businesses outside of the real estate market. In addition to Company Management, Mr. Smith is also the Chairmen of the board for Company 2 out of Anytown and an investor in On-Time Mixers based out of Indianapolis, IN. 
Mr. Smith’ insightful answers to my questions led me to concentrate on the entrepreneurship side of his businesses. I was very interested in listening to his story on how he took a simple $100,000 loan in 1987 and developed a business to be worth millions over the course of time. He began Company Management with two other partners each owning and controlling a third of the company. How he became involved with the Company 2 was also interesting to me since it had nothing to do with real estate. 
After asking the questions regarding his biggest challenges he faced in his career he very quickly said finding the right employees. This answer was not something I expected, I thought it would have been more along the lines of finding investors but after thinking about his answer I understood. Mr. Smith could have found many investors but if he was lacking the right employees the investors would not have been needed and would have been much harder to find. The importance of finding the talent needed to make the business successful is imperative for any company. Employees help to keep the business afloat and without them, many multi-million-dollar empires would be non-existent. 
I am now considering the importance of human resources when it comes to business, while machines and robots can do much more than they have in the past humans will always be needed in some capacity for businesses. As far as my future academic plan is concerned I am looking to take more courses in the human resource side of the business because of the importance it plays in the business as a whole. Since registration is quickly approaching I am looking to find the classes that are able to regain my attention on this aspect of business where you help to maintain and develop their human capital, rather than the aspects of business whose sole purpose is to make that bottom line grow. 
For my next job shadowing, I will look more in a position that relates to human resources and the company culture as I find these to be some very important aspects of what I am looking for in a position. I have found it interesting when running a company how much of an influence benefits have on an employment decision. I have found this interview to make me consider the different aspects that create a business and not one department is more important than another.
