n regard to recycling, one might think of items like aluminum, plastic or paper. It is common knowledge that people should be conscious of the consumption and waste of such materials, and yet there is something in every household that is often overlooked in that regard: clothing. The fashion industry today is known for being fast-paced and affordable, but the fast fashion phenomenon is not a very environmentally conscious trend. From textile repurposing to thrift stores, this essay will address the issues of the environmental impact in the fashion industry and the parts production, retail, and consumption play in all of it.
	The industrialization of fashion sparked the “fast fashion” movement – an idea that the clothing needs to be produced and sold at a rate fast enough to precede the ever-changing styles in the industry. This movement of quickly over-producing clothing, as noted by authors Hwa Kyung Song and Van Dyke Lewis, means that “enormous amounts of clothing and large quantities of unsold or short-lived clothing end up in the landfill,” and the impact starts at the beginning (139). According to Luz Claudio, author of “Waste Couture,” environmentally focused groups like the EPA consider “many textile manufacturing facilities to be hazardous waste generators” (A450). This is because so many of the materials produced for clothing use harmful or non-renewable resources for their production. Some of the most used materials of the industry, specifically cotton and polyester, are largely accountable for various environmental issues. As it turns out, “polyester, the most widely used manufactured fiber, is made from petroleum,” a non-renewable source with long-lasting damage on the environment (Claudio A449). Not only are its contents non-sustainable, but “the demand for…polyester has nearly doubled in the last 15 years,” making it a large factor of the industry’s environmental concern (Claudio A450). Cotton, another highly demanded material is responsible for “a quarter of all the pesticides used in the United States” (Claudio A450). This means that purchasing any inorganic cotton first-hand has contributed to a massive pollutant in the industry. 
	The environmental issues are not all due to the production of clothing, however. They are also due to lack of environmental focus in the retail section of the industry. If it is not trendy to wear environmentally conscious clothing, then brands are not going to market clothes that way. Simone Schiller-Merkens addresses this in her article, “Will Green Remain the New Black?” by explaining that when green fashion was on the rise of environmental importance in the 1970s, it was seen by the industry as “unfashionable or non-aesthetic” (211). Companies only became more conscious of where material came from and how eco-friendly it looked in advertising after it became trendy to the public. As Schiller-Merkens puts it, “ethical fashion activists achieved a place on the agenda of the high fashion scene” only once they were supported by designers, organizations and government programs (212). Until ethical fashion (fashion that is conscious of the environment, worker’s safety, etc.) was profitable from a business standpoint, it was overlooked by the industry. This threatens the longevity of the movement; if ethical fashion goes out of style, the environmental damage continues to be on the rise.
	The problem is, retail only matters because of the consumers. The fashion industry demands consumption to exist. Since consumers are so critical, they ultimately drive the movement of ethical fashion. If consumers are not shopping environmentally-conscious, companies are not going to sell environmentally-conscious clothing. As put by Claudia Henninger et al., a huge gap in the industry is that “consumer awareness remains low,” and in order to make an impact, consumers need to be informed (401). However, the reality is consumers thirst for new fashion, and it is easy to buy when “prices [are] so low that many consumers consider…[them] to be disposable” (Claudio A449). Many people view clothing that way; once it is done being used, it is thrown away. The problem with the fast production and cheap selling of clothing, Claudio states, is that people are buying it at such a rate that “Americans throw away more than 68 pounds of clothing and other textiles per person per year” (A451). This waste could be avoided by promoting “ethical conduct, reduced fashion production, and purchasing quality over quantity clothing” (Henninger et al. 401). The good news regarding ethical fashion is that some aspects of the industry have already taken these steps.
Many companies have taken action to make the production side of clothing more environmentally friendly.  On the farming side of things, companies are reducing pesticide pollution by using “sustainably grown cotton, hemp, bamboo,” and other fabric materials (Claudio A453). The Trans-America Trading Company alone is changing the game for textile repurposing (Claudio A452). They recycle textiles “into absorbent wiping rags…stuffing…[and] clothing,” which gives old textiles another life and prevents new materials from being wasted on these products (Claudio A542). 
In addition to production, retailors are also helping encourage the ethical fashion movement. Alison Gill et al. points out in “Practicing Sustainability” that some retailers, such as Lorna Jane’s ‘Swap Shop,’ provide “financial incentives to take back used clothing at the end of (first) life as a cash discount on new purchases,” which ensures that those clothes are going back to the retailer instead of to a landfill (37).  Other companies like Nike and Mark & Spencer are helping by “integrating organic cotton into their product offering,” which cuts down on their clothes’ pesticide use (Song and Lewis 140). Wal-Mart, “America’s largest retailer,” has also joined the organic cotton trend and is “the world’s largest buyer of organic cotton” (Claudio A453). Other companies like Patagonia are advocates for recycling material in their clothing (Claudio A453). Patagonia “saved 86 million soda bottles from ending up in a landfill” by using “postconsumer plastic bottles” to make their clothing (Claudio A454). As more retailers join in on these trends, they greatly can cut down on pollution in the industry.
As mentioned before, the consumers have a huge role in the movement of ethical fashion. Consumers can take practical steps like “extending the average use life of clothes by just 3 months” to decrease their water, waste, and carbon footprints (Gill et al. 36). They can also cut down their consumption by buying mostly “classic garments” that “resist fashion change,” so that they do not waste clothes that quickly go out of style (Gill et al. 37). Consumers, especially with the help of the internet, can resell their used clothing to give it a second life (Claudio A451). Related to selling first-hand clothing, it is common now for consumers to buy second-hand clothing. Thrift stores like Good Will have seen a dramatic increase in their businesses since 2001 (Claudio A451). Buying secondhand is now one of the most convenient ways for consumers to support sustainable fashion, and is an affordable and practical way consumers are encouraging the movement. 
With so many ways to advance the ethical fashion movement, producers, retailers and consumers are making a noticeable impact to retract the environmental issues of the fashion industry. The harm on the environment starts at the beginning of clothing’s life cycle, and follows it until it reaches a landfill – and the same goes for the aid. These sources support that every aspect of the fashion industry has a role in how sustainable it is, which means to change the industry’s environmental impact, every aspect must work together to do so.
Works Cited
Claudio, Luz. “Waste Couture: Environmental Impact of the Clothing Industry.” Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 115, no. 9, 2007, pp. A448–A454. JSTOR. www.jstor.org/stable/4626880. Accessed 28 Sept. 2017
Gill, Alison, et al. "Practicing Sustainability: Illuminating 'use' in Wearing Clothes." Cultural Studies Review, vol. 22, no. 1, 2016, pp. 32-58. ProQuest. 
http://dx.doi.org.liblink.uncw.edu/10.5130/csr.v21i1.4914. Accessed 3 Oct. 2017.
Henninger, Claudia E., et al. "What is Sustainable Fashion?" Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management, vol. 20, no. 4, 2016, pp. 400-416. ProQuest. https://search-proquest-com.liblink.uncw.edu/docview/1905703865?accountid=14606. Accessed 3 Oct. 2017.
Schiller-Merkens, Simone. “Will Green Remain the New Black? Dynamics in the Self-Categorization of Ethical Fashion Designers.” Historical Social Research / Historische Sozialforschung, vol. 42, no. 1, 2017, pp. 211–237. JSTOR. www.jstor.org/stable/44176030. Accessed 28 Sept. 2017
Song, Hwa Kyung, and Van Dyke Lewis. “Development of a System for Sustainable Fashion from Recycled Clothes - Based on U.S. Fashion Brands.” The Research Journal of the Costume Culture, vol. 21, no. 1, Feb. 2013, pp. 139–150. doi:10.7741/rjcc.2013.21.1.139. Accessed 3 Oct. 2017
