SUBJECT: Careerleader and StrengthsFinder Integration
 
       My results for both strengths finder and career leader go as follows

Stregnthsfinder: Top Five in Theme Report
Restorative
Harmony
Achiever
Focus
Individualization
Careerleader: Top Five Career Matches
Investment Banker
Financial Planning/ Stock Brokering
Law
Commercial Banking
Finance in a Corporate Setting

By breaking down my strengths finder top five elaborating more on them I can easier see how my results correlate between the two exams.
The strengths finder assessment recognizes “Restorative” as a corrective quality. This helps when trying to solve otherwise difficult problems in a workplace or even outside of work. I think this is beneficial because I take it as being synonymous with being a quick learner, and having skills to self-correct as soon as it’s recognized that there is an issue. 
I received “Harmony” as my second redeeming quality on the strengths finder assessment. Harmony is recognized by strengths finder as a quality that seeks for areas of agreement between coworkers and friends. I think this is a beneficial quality because assisting groups and finding common ground on a project is a common workplace issue many professionals face.
“Achiever” is recognized by strengths finder as the quality of being driven and having a need for achievement. I think this is beneficial because being motivated and having a desire to achieve at your job is a fundamental part of being a productive worker. 
“Focus” in strengths finder is the quality recognized as someone having the need for specific planning and goal setting as well as the need for a set destination. This is beneficial because a focused individual with goals is typically a proactive worker.
“Individualization” is recognized by strengths finder as a person who seeks the unique qualities in other individuals and values those individuals by their assets. In a workplace it may become necessary to build a group or work with a group, and this quality can be beneficial in that situation.

My top five careers did not seem to perfectly align with all of my top five strengths at first glance. An investment banker doesn’t necessarily seem like the type of profession that might value harmony and individualization, however the further I thought about the actual day-to-day operations of the job, the more I saw a correlation between my strengths and my career matches. 
A job like Investment banking would require a lot of focus and knowledge about where to invest. It would also require skills in finding agreement between the customer and the professional who is attempting to find an investment the customer is comfortable with. 
Skills like “Individualization” and “Harmony” are important because all of my career matches require that I have good communication with my customers. Properly conveying how I came to decide on a solution to their problem and why I believe that is the best choice for their unique situation can help me excel in my field. 
	There wasn’t too much contradiction in the assessments, I found that most of my strengths were easily applied to most of my career matches when I truly thought about it. Overall I believed that the assessments were helpful by giving me a tangible receipt asserting what my strengths are and where I might find fulfillment in a job.
