Poverty,   Homelessness,   and   Education
Poverty.   One   of   the   largest   reasons   why   many   students   worldwide   are   not   given   the
opportunity   to   move   forward   with   their   education   to   make   a   dream,   an   actual   reality. Homelessness.   Another   huge   reason   why   many   college   students   thrive   to   pursue   a   future   at   their best   capability,   despite   what   one   may   be   going   through   and   how   they   live   on   the   daily,   not having   a   home,   nor   money.   ‘Homeless   college   student’   seems   like   a   contradiction   in   terms,”   said Paul   Toro,   a   psychology   professor   at   Wayne   State   University   who   studies   poverty   and homelessness.   “If   you’re   someone   who   has   the   wherewithal   to   get   yourself   into   college,   well,   of course   you   should   be   immune   to   homelessness.   But   that   just   isn’t   the   case”   (Toro   8).   As   Toro says,   it   sounds   crazy   to   an   individual   that   there   are   students   who   attend   college,   are   homeless, and   have   the   ability   to   juggle   tons   of   homework,   along   with   having   to   work   for   a   living.   Schools are   now   sponsoring   programs   that   offer   necessities   and   care   for   those   who   can’t   afford   them,   yet need   it.   Governments   have   to   deal   with   the   fault   of   the   poverty,   amount   of   homeless   students, and   need   to   contribute   a   big   part   of   their   time   to   these   students   and   motivate   them   to   want   to continue;   offering   more   help   and   needs,   therefore   they   prosper   to   be   better   than   they   imagine, along   with   sharing   their   story   to   influence   other   individuals   that   anything   is   truly   possible.
One   may   question   the   reason   how   they   became   homeless   in   the   first   place,   and   why
they   still   want   to   attend   school.   Many   do   it   because   they   want   to   actually   become   something   and 
set   an   example   for   others.   Although   it   may   be   pretty   hard   to   literally   have   nowhere   to   sleep,   or   be having   to   sleep   in   a   car   and   work   to   support   themselves,   while   attending   school.   Poverty   affects students   and   learning   because   living   with   hardships   can   put   an   individual   through   a   depressing timing   of   their   lives,   feeling   as   if   they’re   capable   of   doing   absolutely   nothing.   In   the   magazine article,   “Homeless   College   Students   Struggle   to   Continue   Their   Education,”   written   by   Amy Donley,   Donley   states,   “Homelessness   can   strike   college   students   at   any   time   and   for   a   variety   of reasons:   Financial   aid   is   delayed.   A   poor   choice   is   made.   A   car   breaks   down.   A   parent   gets   sick. Sometimes   a   door   has   been   shut”   (Donley   13).   She   is   arguing   the   fact   that   it   entirely   doesn’t happen   because   of   their   fault,   things   happen   and   one   can’t   change   that.   The   littlest   things   can have   the   biggest   impact   on   an   individual’s   life   and   drastically   change   them   for   the   better,   or worse.
There   are   millions   of   reasons   that   hold   students   from   attending   college   and   making something   out   of   themselves   with   money   being   one   of   the   main   reasons   holding   them   back   from fulfilling   a   lifelong   dream   of   there’s.   According   to   the   “NAEHCY,”   or   “The   National Association   for   the   Education   of   Homeless   Children   and   Youth,”   the   association   claims,   “Many homeless   students   trying   to   go   to   college   don't   receive   enough   financial   aid   because   they   can't provide   information   about   their   parents   or   guardians   on   the   form.   Several   pieces   of   legislation have   helped   remove   the   barriers   between   homeless   students   and   financial   aid,   such   as   the   recent Higher   Education   Act”   (NAEHCY   6).   The   association   has   made   several   different   restrictions   to accommodate   a   number   of   students   going   through   tough   times   to   help   qualify   them   to   get   some type   of   money   in   order   to   be   able   to   continue   on   with   higher   education.   It   is   a   great   idea   because many   of   these   homeless   students   don’t   have   parents,   therefore   can’t   get   the   information   needed
 
to   fill   out   what   is   needed   from   them.   In   this   way,   students   will   feel   encouraged   and   empowered to   want   to   continue   on   with   higher   education   knowing   they   have   the   ability   to   motivate themselves   to   move   past   every   scenario   they   may   be   going   through.
Many   worldwide   receive   financial   aid   and   take   it   for   granted,   failing   classes,   and   not caring   about   anything   in   college.   It   is   not   fair   for   those   who   are   not   able   to   get   financial   aid because   of   how   they   live   whether   it   being   not   having   parents,   being   homeless,   or   simply   just going   through   a   hardship.   The   ones   who   are   actually   trying   to   learn   and   go   on   with   their   future education   are   struggling   to   start   when   not   having   a   thing.   Giarla,   a   college   teen   grew   up   with   no father   and   a   mother   who   was   consistently   going   in   and   out   of   jail.   She   had   never   had   a permanent   home   to   live   in   so   her   senior   year,   her   best   friend   offered   her   to   live   with   her   and   the family.   She   lived   with   her   best   friend   and   her   family   until   graduation.   According   to,   “College Campuses   See   Rise   in   Homeless   Students,”   written   by   Lexy   Gross,   Gross   shares   Giarla’s   story where   she   claims,   "I   didn't   get   to   enjoy   the   college   experience,"   and   "I   had   to   make   sure   I   was working   and   had   a   roof   over   my   head.   My   primary   focus   was   my   education."   (Gross   12).   Giarla is   sharing   that   it   was   very   hard   for   her   to   continue   and   have   motivation   when   all   she   was   worried about   was   getting   some   type   of   money   to   support   herself   and   having   somewhere   to   live.   She   says that   without   the   motivation   of   staff   and   counselors   on   her   campus,   she   wouldn’t   of   been   able   to move   on   and   continue.   Giarla   urges   that   colleges   worldwide   realize   that   many   of   their   students are   homeless   and   need   that   extra   bump   of   confidence   from   someone   to   keep   them   going.   Giarla asserts,   “My   experience   keeps   me   going,   it's   made   me   who   I   am,"   "These   are   the   cards   I   was dealt   and   I   have   to   play   them   in   a   strategic   way.”   (Gross   33).
 
Taylor   SJ,   a   VICE   author   states   in   an   article   titled,   “This   Is   What   It’s   Like   to   Be Homeless   in   College,”   SJ   claims,   “I   became   homeless   during   spring   break   of   my   sophomore year,   when   many   of   my   fellow   students   were   partying   on   campus   or   vacationing   with   friends.   I was   20   years   old   at   the   time,   an   honor   roll   student   studying   philosophy   and   political   science.   I had   been   living   with   my   grandparents,   who   took   me   in   when   I   was   a   teenager   so   that   I   wouldn't go   into   foster   care.   But   when   my   grandfather   passed   away   and   my   grandmother   fell   ill,   I   had nowhere   to   live.   I   had   no   other   family,   and   no   money   to   pay   for   rent.”   (SJ   5).   As   talked   about,   SJ alleges   that   the   worst   thing   can   honestly   happen   at   any   possible   time   of   the   day   and   one   would never   know   how   bad   it   can   affect   them.   Being   homeless   doesn’t   necessarily   mean   that   one   who became   it,   can   be   labeled   as   a   “low   life.”   When   one   hears   “homeless,”   they   automatically   think as   if   they   just   don’t   care   about   themselves,   are   lazy,   and   just   want   money   for   alcohol.   In   reality, many   homeless   are   just   the   exact   opposite.   They   are   being   pushed   to   live   a   better   life   and   thrive to   be   the   best   possible.   SJ   states,   “Being   homeless   forced   me   to   work   ten   times   as   hard   for   my goals.   While   I   watched   other   students   absentmindedly   scrolling   through   Facebook   or   shopping online   during   lectures,   I   had   no   choice   but   to   focus.   There   was   no   internet   in   homeless   shelters;   I didn't   have   the   luxury   of   studying   whenever   I   wanted,   wherever   I   wanted,   and   failing   was   not   an option.”   (SJ   15).      No   one   had   to   tell   them   to   learn,   they   did   it   because   they   actually   wanted   to, whereas   other   students   would   take   up   class   time   to   be   on   the   internet.
In   the   article,   “   Homeless   College   Students   Struggle   to   Continue   Their   Education,   written by   Amy   Donley,   Lauren   Cantrell,   UCF’s   first   homeless   student   resource   liaison   for    AmeriCorps VISTA    claims,   “People   assume   if   you   have   enough   money   to   afford   tuition,   you   should   have enough   money   to   afford   housing   and   all   the   associated   costs,”   (Cantrell   3).   “That   is   just   not   the
 
case.   Many   [students]   are   coming   from   a   background   without   the   life-skills   training,   parental support   or   monetary   resources   they   need.”   (Cantrell   4).   Many   of   these   homeless   students   living in   poverty   just   don’t   know   what   to   do.   People   think   as   if   ‘She/   He   is   attending   school   and   paying for   it   somehow,   they   must   not   be   going   through   a   lot.’   Individuals   assume   that   have   to   have some   type   of   money   to   be   going   to   college,   but   don’t   realize   what   it   is   like   to   step   inside   of   their shoes   and   walk   in   them   for   a   week.   Donley   says,   “[Homeless   students]   blend   in   with   other college   students;   they’re   all   wearing   jeans   and   T-shirts,”   says   Amy   Donley,   assistant   professor   of sociology.   “There   is   a   lot   of   shame   associated   with   being   homeless,   and   students   try   to   hide   it   if they   can.”   (Donley   17).   These   students   don’t   want   to   show   that   they   are   living   basically   on   the streets   and   struggling,   when   all   they’re   trying   to   do   is   get   a   degree.
Lexy   Gross,   publisher   in   USA   today’s   article,   “College   Campuses   See   Rise   in   Homeless Students,”   shares   “Colleges   across   the   nation   are   starting   programs   to   help   homeless   students   on campus”   (Gross   12).      Starting   programs   is   such   a   great   idea   knowing   there’s   tons   of   people struggling   to   even   concentrate   in   their   classes,   yet   they   know   they   have   to   pay   attention   if   they want   to   get   somewhere.   Many   things   are   going   through   their   mind,   where   they   are   going   to   sleep that   night,   where   they   are   going   to   find   food   that   night,   and   if   they   are   going   to   be   safe   all   night. These   programs   should   benefit   in   tons   of   ways   and   help   those   struggling   realize   that   there   are people   there   to   help   and   motivate   them   to   continue,   proving   there   are   millions   of   individuals going   through   the   same   exact   situations.   “1   In   10   Cal   State   Students   Is   Homeless,   Study   Finds,” written   by   Rosanna   Xia,      Los   Angeles   Times   publisher   states,      “Fresno   State,   for   example, launched   a   "cupboard"   last   fall   that   tracks   leftover   food   from   catered   campus   events   —   and developed   an   app   that   notifies   students   when   food   is   available.   The   university   also   created,
 
among   other   initiatives,   a   center   that   provides   free   groceries,   toothpaste   and   other   basic supplies.”   (Xia   9).   These   programs   definitely   should   not   have   students   feel   embarrassed   that   they are   given   the   opportunity   to   get   all   of   these   things   for   free   because   they   can   not   afford   it,   it   is intended   to   help   them   realize   that   they   are   not   the   only   ones   living   like   that   and   anyone   is   given access   to   go   make   friends   and   get   their   goodies   while   at   school.
Another   huge   program   offered   at   UCLA   and   Santa   Monica   College   is   the   “Bruin Shelter.”   It   happens   to   be   one   of   the   country’s   first   homeless   shelters   run   by   actual   students themselves.   The   homeless   shelter   offers   nine   students   attending   their   schools,   ages   eighteen   to twenty-four,   to   give   them   a   home   and   care   for   each   and   every   one   of   them   for   about   six   months. In   the   article,   “Student-Run   Shelter   Opens   Doors   to   Homeless   Students,”   written   by   both,   Ashley Lanuza   and   David   Yakutiel;   Rebecca   Sarvady,   Bruin   Shelter   media   director   and   a   third-year English   student   claims,   “Residents   can   receive   temporary   housing,   food,   career   counseling   and resources   to   help   them   find   permanent   housing.”   The   homeless   shelter’s   executive   director   and UCLA   alumnus   Louis   Tse   came   up   with   the   brilliant   program   in   the   year   of   2015.   Tse   started   it all   by   living   in   his   car   for   a   couple   of   months   in   order   to   save   money,   therefore   he   could   have   the opportunity   to   launch   the   shelter.   Louis   now   works   for   the   NASA   Jet   Propulsion   Laboratory. “Tse   and   Shaw   started   the   shelter   to   address   homelessness   among   college   students.   There   are approximately   58,000   homeless   college   students   in   the   United   States.”   It   is   outrageous   to   know many   students   are   struggling,   yet   it   may   not   even   look   like   they   are.
Homelessness   and   Poverty   is   a   horrible   thing   millions   of   people   go   through   worldwide. There   are   about   58,000   college   students   who   are   considered   homeless   in   the   United   States   and 10,000   of   them   happen   to   be   in   California.   Yes,   some   homeless   students   may   do   it   all   to
 
themselves   and   get   themselves   to   how   they   are   living,   but   they   can   make   a   change   to   that.   In   the article,   “College   is   Expensive,”   written   by   Melia   Robinson,   Robinson   states,   “A   study   of   t he University   of   Wisconsin    surveyed   about   33,000   students   across   seventy   United   States community   colleges.   Of   those   students,   about   half   were   "housing   insecure,"   meaning   they bounce   between   homes   often   or   cannot   afford   the   cost   of   living.   A   staggering   14%   of   students were   homeless.”   (Robinson   7).   The   problem   of   these   community   college   students   facing   poverty extends   to   those   who   attend   four   year   universities   in   California.   If   there’s   no   stop   to   this,   or helping   out,   it’s   only   going   to   get   worse.   Facilities   and   programs   that   these   colleges   are   now offering   should   not   only   motivate,   yet   really   remind   these   students   that   everything   is   going   to   be just   fine.   In   Robinson’s   article,   biology   instructor,   Pam   Thomas   who   has   discovered   at   least   a dozen   students   in   her   classes   who’ve   faced   homelessness   over   the   past   three   years   says,   “People don’t   realize   how   prevalent   it   is,   sometimes   they   come   into   my   office   to   talk   about   their   grades, but   they   just   look   like   they’ve   seen   a   ghost”   (Robinson   14).   These   students   are   as   frightened   as can   be,   having   that   gut   feeling   as   if   they   are   not   going   to   be   able   to   make   it.
College   is   expensive.   Whether   it   being   attending   community   or   a   four   year.   All   the expenses   such   as   gas,   food,   and   books   add   up   and   financial   aid   may   not   cover   it   all,   having   you pay   some   type   of   thing   out   of   pocket.   Those   who   are   struggling   are   questioning   themselves   how are   they   going   to   get   that   money   and   ask   themselves   where   should   they   start.   A   job   would   come into   mind,   and   get   their   hopes   up   as   if   it’s   going   to   fix   it   all;   yet   many   jobs   are   very   picky   on their   standards.   Many   hiring   employees   who   may   interview   these   students   most   likely   would   see how   they   are   dressed   and   how   they   may   talk   and   look.   If   not   well   maintained,   they   possibly   will not   get   the   job.   Not   having   homes   to   be   able   to   take   showers   in   and   have   fresh   clothes   to   change
 
into   can   make   it   hard   for   them   to   fit   many   jobs   standards.   These   homeless   students   looking   for jobs   would   have   to   jump   through   hoops   to   get   the   job   and   if   they   did,   travel   to   it   someway, everyday.
The   Government   needs   to   take   the   urge   to   make   a   huge   difference   in   the   society   college students   live   in   today   and   keep   a   good   eye   out   on   how   they   are   really   living   their   daily   lives.   As previously   stated   in   Donley’s   article,   “Homeless   College   Students   Struggle   to   Continue   Their Education,”   Maya   Duffield,   counselor   at   CSUB   states,   “Most   are   students   who   have   had   very challenging   lives   and   yet   see   education   and   college   as   the   way   out,”   (Duffield   21).   “And   that’s really   the   marvel,   the   miracle   and   hope   in   all   that.   The   kind   of   persistence   and   tenacity   [they show]   to   really   keep   going   despite   all   the   obstacles.”   (Duffield   24).   College   ought   to   be   every student’s   start   to   their   dream   jobs   and   intended   to   get   every   student   educated   enough   to   reach their   goals.   College   shouldn’t   be   somewhere   an   individual   is   suffering   and   frightened   of   every move   they   make.   If   the   government   were   to   really   show   these   students   that   they   are   100%   there for   every   one   of   them   at   any   time   of   day,   both,   graduation   and   college   rates   would   sky   rocket   up, encouraging   students   that   they   are   not   the   only   ones   who   go   through   hardships;   along   with motivating   and   encouraging   others   that   if   they   can   go   to   school,   work,   and   not   have   a   home,   they definitely   can   also.
 
Works   Cited
Donley,   Amy.   “Homeless   College   Students   Struggle   to   Continue   Their   Education.”   Pegasus
Magazine,   25   July   2016,   < www.ucf.edu/pegasus/invisible-struggles/ >.
Gross,   Lexy.   “College   Campuses   See   Rise   in   Homeless   Students.”   USA   Today,   Gannett
Satellite   Information   Network,   21   Oct.   2013, < www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/10/21/homeless-students-american-colleges /314438 >.
Harris,   Elizabeth   A.   “Behind   the   Problem   of   Student   Homelessness.”   The   New   York   Times,   7 Apr.   2017,
<www.nytimes.com/2017/04/07/education/edlife/college-student-homelessness.html>. Lanuza,   Ashley   and   David   Yakutiel.   “Student-Run   Shelter   Opens   Doors   to   Homeless   Students.”
Daily   Bruin,   27   Oct.   2016,
<dailybruin.com/2016/10/27/student-run-shelter-opens-doors-to-homeless-students/>. Robinson,   Melia.   “College   is   Expensive.”   Business   Insider,   4   Apr.   2017,
< www.businessinsider.com/ucla-shelter-college-student-homelessness-2017-4 >. SJ,   Taylor.   “This   Is   What   It's   Like   to   Be   Homeless   in   College.”   Vice,   23   July   2015,
< www.vice.com/en_us/article/exqzmk/being-homeless-in-college-made-me-work-ten-ti
mes-harder-715 >.
Tse,   Louis.   “Bruin   Shelter   Gets   Off   the   Ground.”   Bruin   Shelter   Gets   Off   the   Ground,   ECR,   6
Feb.   2010,
<alumni.ucla.edu/email/connect/2016/may/bruin-shelter/default.htm>.
Xia,   Rosanna.   “1   In   10   Cal   State   Students   Is   Homeless,   Study   Finds.”   Los   Angeles   Times,   20
 
June   2016, < www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-cal-state-homelessness-20160620-snap-story.html >.