                                                                            Children in Need
	The CNN Hero Project is a website that displays people who have done amazing things for people and communities. This website seeks to display the unsung heroes who deserve recognition for good deeds. Jennifer Maddox and Jennifer Cox are two of these heros who have done something to help children. Maddox is a Chicago cop who made a solution to stop violence before it started. While Cox empowers students who are living in homeless shelters. Both womens projects are live changing but it may seem that Maddox is making a bigger impact. This is simply because of all the extra effort she puts in. 
	Both of these women had different reasons for starting these organizations. Maddox personally grew up in south side Chicago.When she was little she could play in the streets with her friends and not worry about being shot, robbed or beat up like children worry about today. She wants to help children have a safe environment to play and learn like she had. She mentions this in her interview here “"We are in a state of emergency here," Maddox said. "The shooting, the killing. Five-, six-, seven-year-olds—they're losing people that they love and care about….A lot of our young people are fearful to even come outside," Maddox said"”(Calhoun). Beyond giving children a safe place to go, Maddox also wants them to feel like they belong as said in this quote: “I'm trying to give them a sense of belonging, because that's what I had as a child coming up, and that's what I gave my children when they were growing up. And I think we've gotten away from it. I want them to have that feeling of being at home, safe and at peace”(Calhoun). Cox is a teacher who noticed that students that lived in homeless shelters were less social and more secluded. She also volunteered at a homeless shelter and noticed that the adults were given more attention then the children in the shelter. When asked in her interview about the obstacles facing homeless students she said this “ At the shelter, they are constantly in stressful situations. They are living in cramped spaces. The security guard has to check them each and every time they enter the shelter. There's a huge sense of embarrassment; they don't want their friends to know where they're living”(Klairmont). Cox also wants children to have a healthy lifestyle “We teach fitness activities like yoga, Zumba, barre, mindful meditation -- different sports and cooperative games that allow them to move and get some exercise and to use it as an outlet for the stressful things that are going on in their life”(Klairmont). 
	Cox and Maddox both help children who are not as fortunate as others. Maddox helps children who live in a bad neighborhood. This quotation provides information about how many children Maddox helps, “Today, Maddox and her group provide a free, safe space for more than 100 children in grades K-5 to learn, grow and succeed. Her ultimate goal is to reach all 1,200 children that live in the complex. Maddox works a second job to support these efforts”(Calhoun). Cox helps homeless students feel more engaged and not as alone. She helps a lot of students with her nonprofit organization. “Also known as Empower4Life, the nonprofit has provided health education, fitness activities, nutritious food and other necessities for more than 1,000 children living in Baltimore-area homeless shelters”(Klairmont). 
	A huge similarity that both women have is the motivation to help those children in need. Cox will go after school ours with a lot of fruits and vegetables for the homeless shelter.”Our health and wellness program covers many topics including self-esteem building, decision making, healthy eating, conflict resolution, and drug and alcohol prevention”(Klairmont). Maddox acquired a second job just to raise enough money to get these children the supplies they needed. Her having a second job is mentioned in this quotation “Her ultimate goal is to reach all 1,200 children that live in the complex. Maddox works a second job to support these efforts”(Calhoun). Both of these extra efforts are what make them such good leaders for these organizations. 
	In conclusion these two women have many similarities and differences but they both have changed lives. It takes a big heart to devote all of your time to something like these organizations. Maddox and Cox both work with children who are not fortunate and need a more stable environment. 











                                                                                          Works Cited
Calhoun, Marissa. “One Chicago cop's solution: Stop the violence before it starts”.CNN Heros,   15 November 
      2017, http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/30/living/cnn-hero-jennifer-maddox-future-ties/index.html. Accessed 29 
      November 2017. 
Klairmont, Laura. “Empowering children who live in homeless shelters”. CNN Heros, 15 June 2017, 
     http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/15/health/cnn-hero-jennifer-cox-empower4life/index.html. Accessed 29 
      November 2017.