The Power of Sustainable Shopping
	Fashion is a lot of things: fast, desirable, cheap, attainable. However, fashion is not green. Clothes are always cycling in and out of style, which means that consumers are constantly buying and throwing away clothes. Since fashion is something to be had when it is new and hot, sustainability is often overlooked when it comes to buying clothing. Constantly buying and throwing away clothing supports the fast fashion movement, which is the reason the fashion industry is a leading contributor to pesticide and landfill pollution. It is heavily important that the industry heads in a more sustainable direction to combat its environmental damage, but this is only going to happen if there is a demand for sustainable fashion from us, the consumers. If consumers are buying and demanding sustainable fashion, the industry will start providing more of it.
The environmental issues in the fashion industry are more pressing than most consumers are aware of. Many of the environmental problems stem from production of unsustainable clothing. Materials in fabric are some of the main contributors to agricultural issues and they are constantly overproduced in the industry to keep up with demand. Cotton alone uses “a quarter of all the pesticides” in the United States and “polyester, the most widely used manufactured fiber, is made from petroleum” (Claudio A449). This means that when we buy those products, we support the unsustainable and harmful production of clothing. But because clothes are so available and so cheap that they are viewed as disposable, people continue to buy unethical clothing without batting an eye (Claudio A449). This means that “enormous amounts of clothing and large quantities of unsold or short-lived clothing end up in the landfill” (Song and Lewis 139). In fact, the average American throws away 68 pounds of clothing per year (Claudio A451). These numbers need to go down. Fashion must move in a greener direction and that will only be possible with the help of the consumers. 
As put by Claudia Henninger et al., a huge gap in the industry is that “consumer awareness remains low,” and in order to make an impact, consumers need to be informed (401). If consumers are informed, they will shop smarter and in result, change the industry. Consumer demand is crucial to the fashion industry. Companies need to stay oriented towards the buying patterns of consumers to stay afloat in the business world. Therefore, it is imperative that consumers are buying sustainable clothes so that supply and demand of sustainable fashion increases.  By changing focus from fast fashion to sustainable fashion, consumers “can influence the development of new categories by opening market opportunities” (Schiller-Merkens 213). In other words, change in the industry comes from consumer interest.  
“But realistically, what does it look like to shop sustainably?” Well, since you asked, sustainability can range from buying less clothing to shopping at a thrift store. Simply buying something secondhand means you are extending a garment’s life and keeping it out of the landfill. Even though used clothing has had a stigma of being undesirable, consignment store sales have actually been growing at a rate of 5% per year, meaning it is not unfashionable or unpopular to shop secondhand anymore (Claudio A451). Thrifting is an affordable and practical way to support the sustainable fashion movement. 
If used clothing is not so much your style, you can shop sustainably by looking for organic or recycled labels on garments when you shop. By doing this you are supporting the demand for sustainable clothing and lessening your own personal impact on pesticide use. If you know where to look, it should be fairly easy to find organic clothing; companies such as Wal-Mart, Patagonia, and Nike have already incorporated environmentally friendly options into their selection. In fact, Wal-Mart is “the world’s largest buyer of organic cotton” and Patagonia “saved 86 million soda bottles from ending up in a landfill” by using postconsumer plastic bottles to make their clothing (Claudio A453-A454). 
Another way to support sustainable fashion is to be conscious of where your clothing goes when you are done with it. You might justify throwing away clothing due to stains, rips or other damage – but there are environmentally friendly alternatives. You can send those clothes and fabrics to textile recycling companies like the Trans-America Trading Company, which recycles textiles “into absorbent wiping rags…stuffing…[and] clothing” to cut down on landfill waste (Claudio A542). You can also expand the life of clothing instead of throwing it out or buying new clothes to support sustainability. Expanding a garment’s life, even by just 3 months, “leads to a 5-10 per cent reduction in each of the carbon, water and waste footprints” (Gill et al. 36). Or, if you would rather make some extra cash from your used or unwanted clothing, there is always the option to sell it. Selling clothing has become much more convenient in the age of the internet, making it possible for almost anyone to resell their clothes. This gives your clothing a second life and keeps it out of the landfill – at least for a while longer. 
Lastly, the easiest way to support sustainable fashion is to simply buy less clothing. Try to buy only a few pieces that can be mixed and matched and will not likely go out of season before the year is over. Redirecting your shopping towards “classic garments” that “resist fashion change” will not only save you money, but it will slow down the fast fashion mentality (Gill et al. 37). It is also important to keep in mind the quality of the clothes you buy. In order to buy less, you have to make sure the pieces you do buy will last. This might mean sacrificing a few extra dollars for a piece that is of higher quality than the fast-fashion we are so used to. But those extra dollars spent will likely end up saving you money when you do not have to constantly replace cheap, worn out clothing. 
Now, you might have wondered while reading – “Won’t all this change be bad for the fashion industry?” And the answer is no. In fact, the solution I am arguing for would actually be good for the fashion industry. Companies are going to pay attention to what is selling, and if sustainable fashion is selling, there will be a positive change in the industry. Companies are going to adjust their products to what will make them money. This means the only way for sustainable clothing to become more available is if we start buying sustainable clothing now. 
	And right now is the time to shop sustainably. The resources are available; we just need to use them. So many companies are cashing in on the sustainable fashion movement, and it is up to the consumers now to support that movement. When you use clothes longer and buy clothes less, companies will catch on and stop overproducing wasteful clothing and start producing sustainable clothing. And even if you are not able to purchase sustainable clothing right now, you can still support sustainable fashion by spreading the word about it. It does not so much matter how much you are doing for the movement, just that you are doing something. As consumers, it is our job to be the voice for the industry, and by supporting sustainable fashion in any way we can, our voices will be heard.




Works Cited
Claudio, Luz. “Waste Couture: Environmental Impact of the Clothing Industry.” Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 115, no. 9, 2007, pp. A448–A454. JSTOR. www.jstor.org/stable/4626880. Accessed 28 Sept. 2017
Gill, Alison, et al. "Practicing Sustainability: Illuminating 'use' in Wearing Clothes." Cultural Studies Review, vol. 22, no. 1, 2016, pp. 32-58. ProQuest. 
http://removed-this-url.com/ Accessed 3 Oct. 2017.
Henninger, Claudia E., et al. "What is Sustainable Fashion?" Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management, vol. 20, no. 4, 2016, pp. 400-416. ProQuest. http://removed-this-url.com/. Accessed 3 Oct. 2017.
Schiller-Merkens, Simone. “Will Green Remain the New Black? Dynamics in the Self-Categorization of Ethical Fashion Designers.” Historical Social Research / Historische Sozialforschung, vol. 42, no. 1, 2017, pp. 211–237. JSTOR. www.jstor.org/stable/44176030. Accessed 28 Sept. 2017.
Song, Hwa Kyung, and Van Dyke Lewis. “Development of a System for Sustainable Fashion from Recycled Clothes - Based on U.S. Fashion Brands.” The Research Journal of the Costume Culture, vol. 21, no. 1, Feb. 2013, pp. 139–150. doi:10.7741/rjcc.2013.21.1.139. Accessed 3 Oct. 2017.
