Keywords: ethics, capital punishment, death penalty















The Use of Capital Punishment and the
Ethical Issues Correlating with It
Capital Punishment: A Brief Background
	Capital punishment, more commonly known as the death penalty, is one of the major punishments given to a criminal. It has been very controversial because of the ethical issues behind it. The death penalty is commonly defined as a court sanctioned death. It was used as early as the first colonies in the new America, and “all of the colonies authorized public execution by hanging as the mandatory punishment for various crimes against the state, the person, and property” (Bedau, 1997, p. 3). Even back then, the death penalty was the go-to punishment for the smallest criminals, whether it was through lynching or decapitation. Shortly after the period of the early colonies, a new writer named Cesare Beccaria shared his views on the death penalty through his report On Crimes and Punishment. Beccaria did not believe that the death penalty was the best form of punishment because of the extremes it went to, and he preferred a lighter form of punishment. According to Bedau (1997), “his argument elicited great interest and broad support among Enlightenment thinkers throughout Europe, and his book was widely read in the United States as well” (p. 4). His work became one of the influences in the United States’ Constitution when talking about punishment.
	The death penalty was not thrown out when deciding on punishments. Due to the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution which stated that there shall be no cruel or unusual punishments given to anyone, the alleged was kept from dying in a way that was unnecessarily cruel. As of 2016, thirty-one out of the fifty states in America along with the U.S. Government and Military still allow the death penalty as a punishment (Death Penalty Information Center, 2017). 
Views on Capital Punishment
	There are not many views on capital punishment. Is it either believed that the death penalty should either be abolished or kept but have some changes made to it. According to Badau (1997), “In this country as early as 1787, Dr. Benjamin Rush, a Philadelphian like this friend Benjamin Franklin, lectured and wrote against public executions” (p. 5). It was a common opinion to stop all of the public execution due to it being morally wrong to kill someone in front of a crowd of people.
	According to a response to an opinion on the death penalty, “Dr. Ron Paul, leader of the libertarian movement and former Congressman, favors the elimination of the death penalty. He argues from both a moral and economic, or pragmatic, perspective against executions” (Block, 2015, p. 339). The responder, Mr. Walker E. Block, believes otherwise. He is one of the people who believes that the death penalty is something worth having should have its limits and changes. Block (2015) starts off by saying, “Congressman Paul is certainly correct in asserting that the popularity of capital punishment is on the decline” (p. 340). According to this statement, the view on the death penalty is getting to be more negative than positive, even in the conservative states. To follow up, Block responds to another section of Paul’s writing, which says that “It is hard to find a more wasteful and inefficient government program than the death penalty. New Hampshire recently spent over $4 million dollars prosecuting just two death penalty cases, while Jasper County in Texas raised property taxes by seven percent in order to pay for one death penalty case!” (2015, p. 340). Paul’s statement emphasizes that it is unethical to kill someone at such a high cost. It not only affects the criminal by executing them, but it also hurts the state in which the criminal is being punished along with the people in the state. In response, Block (2015) says “the fact that capital punishment is run in an improvident manner only demonstrates that if cost-saving is the goal—a goal that is certainly not unreasonable—government should not be in charge of the process. It does not at all lead to the conclusion that the death penalty itself should not be implemented —under alternative arrangements, such as private courts, police, and defense agencies” (p. 340). Block agrees that the death penalty is expensive, but does not believe that it should not be practiced anymore.

Issues and Controversies with Capital Punishment
It is a common issue that capital punishment is given to too many innocent or undeserving people. In the infamous court case, Furman v. Georgia, Furman was “convicted of murder and sentenced to death” (Furman v. Georgia, n.d.). The backstory behind his case was that he was burglarizing a home and while he was trying to flee, he tripped and accidentally shot the homeowner. It was a great controversy as to whether or not he deserved the death sentence, so the case when to the Supreme Court. They agreed that his punishment was unethical and violated the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution by exercising cruel and unusual punishment. This was one of the important cases concerning the death penalty due to the lack of necessity of death. Kaufman-Osborn (n.d.) states that “It would be ethically obtuse to deny that an execution is in certain senses a qualitatively unique punishment” (p. 373). He means to say that it is completely extreme and unnecessary to sentence people to death depending on their crimes, and it is a very obscure method.
	In a book review, Carol S. Steiker summarizes Matthew Kramer’s position and says that “the claim that capital punishment is a morally required response to certain extreme evils” (2013, p. 367). According to Kramer, the death penalty has its reasons to be given if the criminal has done something very wrong. Steiker relates the use of the death penalty back to the time of the Holocaust, where Nazis would take innocent Jews and send them into gas chambers. Several controversies have risen due to similar ideas. The use of the death penalty has been argued as cruel and unusual by people who believe that there are other methods. Another issue with capital punishment is linked to the doctors who execute it through a lethal injection or another type. According to Rix, “Because physician involvement in capital punishment runs contrary to the traditional medical virtues, it can be regarded as ‘subversive to the core of medical ethics’” (p. 660). Doctors are known to do what is morally right to save a human, so executing them does not make sense in regard to the good of medicine. It is also stated that “However, the autonomous role of physicians and in particular their obligation not to compromise their ethical standards, even when so obliged by state laws or regulations, is set out in the Declaration of Geneva (1948) and the International Code of Medical Ethics (1949)” (Rix, 2013, 660). Doctors face the dilemma of doing what is ethically right versus what is expected of them by the government.  They, just like everyone else, have to decide who is right and who is wrong, and also whether or not the death penalty is necessary.

Conclusion
	The death penalty is not something that is necessary and proper. It is the highest extreme as to what a criminal has to face, and this extreme should not be met. In a way, the death penalty is an easy way out. A criminal could be just fine with being sentenced to death because they have already lived their lives and done what they strived to do: commit crimes. Capital punishment is ethically wrong because it is hypocritical to kill someone because they murdered someone. There is no different. A better way to punish these criminals could be by giving them a life sentence in prison. It is not cruel nor unusual, but it will still keep them from committing crimes.
References
Bedau, H. A., (Ed.). (1997). The death penalty in America: Current controversies. New York, 
NY: Oxford University Press.
Block, W.E. (2015). The death penalty: Response to Ron Paul. Criminal Justice Ethics, 34(3), 
339-349.
Death Penalty Information Center, (2017). States with and without the death penalty. Retrieved 
from https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/states-and-without-death-penalty
Furman v. Georgia. (n.d.). Oyez. Retrieved from https://www.oyez.org/cases/1971/69-5030
Kaufman-Osborn, T. V.  (n.d.). A critique of contemporary death penalty abolitionism. 
Punishment & Society, 8(3), 365-383.
Rix, K. J. B. (2013).  White coated healer or black coated executioner: Health professionals and 
capital punishment. Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine, 20(6), 659-666.
Steiker, C.S. (2013). Can/should we purge evil through capital punishment? [Review of the book 
The ethics of capital punishment: A philosophical investigation of evil and its consequences, by M. H. Kramer. Crim Law and Philos, 9, 367-378.
