Exploring the Lives of Enslaved Children
	It is often difficult to explain something to a child that an adult doesn’t really understand either. For enslaved children, trying to understand the concept that they were not equal to others based on their complexion was a challenging one. “Historian Paul Lovejoy estimates that girls and boys constituted over twenty three percent of the Africans transported to the Americas during the period of 1701 to 1809.”[footnoteRef:1]  All slaves were terrified by their current and future situations, but for the children who had no idea what was going on the terror consumed them. Augustino, a twelve year old kidnapped in West Africa, recalls the conditions he and his shipmates encountered, “children were so consumed with anxiety about their fate that they committed suicide while crossing the Atlantic Ocean.”[footnoteRef:2] Those children were being exposed to situations where they had no idea why things were happening to them, and weren’t getting any answers. Although all slaves endured unfair treatment and harsh lives, the lives of enslaved children were even harder because most were too young to comprehend why their lives were the way they were. [1:  Wilma King, Stolen Childhood Slave Youth in Nineteenth Century America (Indiana: Bloomington, 1995), 3.]  [2:  King, 15-16.] 

The saddest aspect of enslaved children was the confusion they displayed from being treated so poorly. Sometimes the scariest thing about change is not knowing anything that will follow, the fear of the unknown. Isaac Johnson was the son of a white slave owner, Richard, and his slave, Jane. They had four sons together, Isaac was the second oldest. One of the earlier memories Isaac recalls is his father abandoning the family, resulting in the family being auctioned away. 
The auctioneer continued his cry for bids and [my brother] was at last sold for eight		 hundred dollars. By this time we had taken in the situation, and it seemed as though my 		mother's heart would break. Such despair I hope I may never again witness. We children 	knew something terrible was being done, but were not old enough to fully understand. 	Thus, in a very short time, our happy family was scattered, without even the privilege of 	saying "Good by" to each other, and never again to be seen, at least so far as I was 	concerned. [footnoteRef:3]  [3:  Isaac Johnson, Slavery Days in Old Kentucky (New York: Ogdensburg, 1901), 10.] 

Those poor children had to watch their family be sold and torn apart, and couldn’t understand why any of it was happening. Isaac later realizes the unpleasant truth of slavery when recalling his father abandoning him and his family, “he had sold his own flesh and blood. That is what American slavery made possible. That is the "Divine institution" we have heard so much about, the cornerstone of the proposed Confederacy.”[footnoteRef:4] Most enslaved children come to a realization about their childhoods years later, once they’ve seen enough to understand the vicious lives they had to live and why.  [4:  Johnson, 14.] 

When reading through the slave narratives, a common theme was the idea that most enslaved children had a defining moment when they realized there was a difference between them and a white child. Up until that moment, they didn’t seem to realize any differences, but once they came to understand them, everything was different. Lunsford Lane, an enslaved child whose “condition of a slave was comparatively a happy, indeed a highly favorable one”[footnoteRef:5] describes his defining moment in his narrative. First, Lane describes his early childhood as he played with colored and white children, “I knew no difference between myself and the white children nor did they seem to know any in turn. Sometimes my master would come out and give a biscuit to me, and another to one of his own white boys but I did not perceive the difference between us.”[footnoteRef:6] This truly reveals the innocence of children and that prejudice is taught, not inherited. As Lane grew older, his work load became larger, but nothing unbearable. When he was about twelve years old, his world became a little worse as reality began to set in. “When I began to work, I discovered the difference between myself and my master's white children. They began to order me about, and were told to do so by my master and mistress.”[footnoteRef:7] He was now realizing there was a distinct difference in the way he was treated versus the way the white children he grew up with were. Another point Lane makes in his narrative is the difference of education for white and black children. Lane was disappointed when “I found that they had learned to read, while I was not permitted to have a book in my hand.”[footnoteRef:8] Black children were limited in the education they received, as a result of the white man’s fear that educated children could not be enslaved. Wilma King’s Stolen Childhood discussed the idea that “The extent to which [children] succeed depend on their owners’ attitudes about the intellectual and religious development of slaves. Southern owners were conscious of the possibility the religion and education could undermine slavery if they changed the bondservants’ world views and made them restive.”[footnoteRef:9] This way of thinking is an indicator to anyone that enslaved children were purposely held back and treated unfairly compared to white children because knowledge is power, and slaves could not be given power.  [5:  Lunsford Lane, The Narrative of Lunsford Lane (Boston: J.G Torrey, 1842), iii. ]  [6:  Lane, 6.]  [7:  Lane, 7. ]  [8:  Lane, 7.]  [9:  King, 169.] 

Being enslaved is a hard enough concept to grasp for a human, but that much harder for a child that simply does not understand why it is happening. Enslaved children had to endure being separated from their families at young ages, and growing up alongside a white child, comparing the opportunities available to others and not for them. An enslaved child’s mind was full of unanswered questions, the fear of the unknown, and longing for a family member to console them. Most of the time enslaved children led the saddest lives, being too young to realize why.












Bibliography
Johnson, Isaac. Slavery Days in Old Kentucky. Ogdensburg: Republican & Journal, 1901. 
King, Wilma. Stolen Childhood: Slave Youth in Nineteenth Century America. Indiana			 University Press, 2011. 
Lane, Lunsford. The Narrative of Lunsford Lane. Boston: J.G. Torrey, 1842.
