



	

				                       Racial inequality 

Racial inequality is the result of economic policies that lead to the disempowerment of colored people. In the modern day society people of color are not exposed to equal opportunities. In the film, “Park Avenue: Money, Power, And the American Dream- Why Poverty?” Alex Gibney makes it apparent that the most wealthy and powerful people are white males. The current U.S political climate will hinder future opportunities of people of color because people of color do not have equal opportunities, are more prevalent in low income neighborhoods, and pay higher tax rates. 
Those born in the poor side of Park Avenue want the same for their families that any wealthy person would want, happiness, good health, and success. People like this did not choose to live in poverty but were simply not given the opportunities nor resources. “The income of people on the lower end stagnated” (“Park Avenue” 2:50) I can argue that the current US political climate will hinder the future opportunities of colored people because it is hard to pull yourself out of extreme poverty. The US should use their money for more than just buying luxurious cars, property, and private jets. Besides the material things, the wealthy people of park avenue actually use their money to rig the game in their favor to show that they are politically powerful. Richard V. Reeves stated in an article that “Black children are more likely to be born into poverty than white children; but they are also less likely to escape." (The other American dream 2013) Unemployment in the Bronx has reached nearly 19% in the past years.” 
Wealthy Americans pay fewer taxes because they use their money for financing political campaigns and control tax rates, leaving the billions of dollars every year is spent on lobbying. These lobbyists can influence the writing of laws, implementation of regulation, the degree of which the tax code tilts towards business and those are “America is so called the land of opportunity, a land where anyone can make it to the top.” (Park avenue 2:20) 
Less than 10 miles across the Harlem river was south Bronx, America’s congressional district. wealthy people could have used their funding to do something about the poverty in park avenue. My examples illustrate that people of color really do not have equal opportunities other resources. 
Others may argue that the US political climate will not    hinder the economic opportunities for people of color because people living in poverty have to help themselves before anyone else can help them. Some people that live in poverty rely solely on welfare to feed their families. 
The views can easily be refuted, there are multiple facts and sources both in “Park Avenue”, online. That provides background information 
 	In conclusion to the argument made previously, due to the disempowerment of colored people the wealthy is not doing anything to help the poor prosper. Instead they are worried about the material things, and controlling taxes and laws for themselves. So the US `

	
					Work cited

Park avenue: Money, power, and the American dream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So
Alex Gibney 
November 12th, 2012  


Premiered November 12, 2012
