Annotated bibliography 

Charles Wheelan. “It’s Official: In America, Affluence Equals Influence”. www.usnews.com, April 22, 2014. In this article Charles Wheelan revises a research that is done on which interest groups supported or opposed policy changes. Meaning, what groups in America get what they want in the political system? It shows that economic elites and organized business groups have substantial impact on U.S government policy, while the average citizen does not have any influence. Politicians will listen more to rich people and groups organized to advance their interests. This means the majority does not rule. Whenever a majority of citizens disagree with organized interests they generally lose. This is because the big impact rich people create on the 
U.S political system, even if the majority of citizens want a policy change they do not get it. 

Lisa Miller. “The Money-Empathy Gap”. www.Nymag.com, July 1, 2012. In this article Lisa Miller is explaining how having more money makes people act less human. The writer shares a research that was done in which two people play monopoly but a team of psychologist have rigged it so that one player has a great advantage over the other. In this research, the person with the more money does not seem to care about the other player who is losing badly. He does not have any sympathy for the other player as he takes away his cash, keeps buying more properties and collecting more money. It also talks about a research that has begun in which it shows how having more money affects psychological behavior. It explains how people with greater advantage over others seem to care less and less about their circumstances. 

Maya Wesby. “Why the rich stay rich and the poor stay poor”. www.newsweek.com, July 17, 2015. The article focuses mainly on places in which poverty rates are very high, and how many people are able to achieve college education compared to those families that are very wealthy. The reality is that a child born into a wealthy family has access to all the luxurious resources, which is an unfair advantage over children born into low income families. As wealthy kids are likely to stay wealthy, as likely it is for a poor kid to stay poor. The article goes deeper as to how students pick their major. Wealthy students will often pick things that are less marketable while low income students may choose their majors based on financial necessity.
