Some dream to become doctors others dream to be firefighters. All people have a dream on what they desire to be. In Junot Diaz's "The dreamer", He describes his mother’s struggle in a 3rd world country of following her dream. Following your dream is not only a problem for 3rd world countries but also in our own society because parents want their children to pick a more secure job, people discourage and tell others they won’t succeed and some do not have the resources to attain what they strive to become.
	First, parents want their children to pick a more secure job. Especially those who come from “normal” families, their parents want to make sure their job makes money. Parents want to make sure that finance will not be a problem for their children. They also want their children to be realistic. For example, if a person’s child is short but they want to be an NBA player then it’s not a huge chance that they will make it. Parents do not want their children to take that huge risk. Seeing their children fail will also hurt the parent extremely. They do not want to see their child fail and not accomplish what they wanted.
	Not only do parents want a secure job for their children but another problem encountered when someone follows their dream is people’s discouragement and statements that tell them they will fail. People’s own family will be the first one in discouraging them. They will tell them no one has achieved that high in their family. Someone;s friends and acquaintances will gossip and talk bad about their choices. People will also use others to compare to someone. They will use examples of those who tried but didn’t succeed. They will say “Your uncle did the same thing. Now look where he is, a mailman.”
	Lastly, some do not have the resources to attain what they strive to become. A person may be born into a poor family. People may not be as lucky as others and be fortunate enough to have access to some resources. For example, the most important resource, money. A poor person may not have the money to get where they want to be. They may not live in a place where these resources are available. If a person lives in the country but want to become an actor they are not in the right place for what they are striving to be. Others will also stop someone from using resources. A person’s parents may not take their children to places where they can use these resources.
	Everyone has their own dream. Some chase that dream and others settle for what they have. A person following their dream can run into the problems of their parents wanting them to pick a more secure job, people discouraging them and telling them they won’t succeed and they may not have the resources available to them.