
Amplifying the Importance of University 1
When it comes to college graduates applying for jobs after graduation, having course knowledge is not all that employers look for in potential employees. A number of employers have recently stated that universities are not sufficiently preparing college students with the transferable skills such as: goal setting, managing time and stress, flexibility, and proper résumé presentation that go beyond the job specific skills needed to excel in the workforce. On the other hand, universities are claiming that they offer courses and workshops for their students designed to teach skills for self-development and lifelong learning. College students and graduates point out that the skills they learned in these courses and workshops were helpful resources in guiding them towards a positive learning environment. Although the universities are offering these opportunities, it is not mandatory for all the students to attend and many miss out on the opportunity to learn these specific skills. Anytown State offers University 1, a college and job readiness course that focuses on these specific strategies to help students cope with both the academic and social demands and prepares them with those lifelong skills needed to succeed in the workforce. Therefore, University 1 should be enforced as a mandatory requirement for all first-year Anytown State college students to take and pass before graduation because it highlights these transferable skills that are beneficial for college students in the long run.
Generally, incoming students come into college with a specific goal in mind: to acquire a degree, be more socially involved on campus, or simply live the college experience. Although they have these goals, some may not know how to effectively accomplish the tasks to achieve those goals in a timely manner. That is where University 1 comes in and acts as a foundation to teach the freshman how to stay on track and be motivated to accomplish and set realistic goals. By engaging in goal setting, students will be learning how to establish short and long-term goals and modify them if necessary as they progress in attaining them. To be specific, in the article, “Goal Setting and Self-Efficacy During Self-Regulated Learning”, Dale H. Schunk researched the link between goal setting, self-efficacy, and affective reactions and argued that “self-efficacy increases as students note progress, attain goals, and set new challenges” (7). Realistic goal setting trains students to take personal responsibility for their learning outcomes and boosts performance further as self-satisfaction is anticipated. When students meet their goals in a timely manner they are led to set new challenging goals. As students are taught the most effective strategies to accomplish a goal, they are more likely to take control over their learning outcomes (4-7). With every class, professors have an intended goal to teach their students the subject material in a specific time. Similar to professors, it is imperative that the students develop a strong mindset to challenge themselves to work towards their objective no matter how difficult it may be. Some first year students may argue that they already know how to set goals and know how to accomplish them. However, with the new environment and the demands of college it is important that they have a support system to guide them into achieving their goals. The ability to engage in appropriate self-regulation and having a positive mindset to complete their tasks is a beneficial trait that future employers seek . 
Amongst other skills, University 1 teaches their students effective time management strategies to be applied to college and the workforce. When it comes to managing a work schedule, assignments, group projects, and attending social events, it can be overwhelming and stressful. However, effective time management skills can reduce that stress. For instance, in the article, “College Students’ Time Management: Correlations with Academic Performance and Stress”,  by Therese Hoff Macan, Comila Shahani, Robert L. Dipboye, and Amanda Peek Phillips, 288 undergraduate students completed a questionnaire regarding their time management behaviors such as: prioritization, scheduling, planning, perceived control of time, and preference for organization. The results revealed that those who engaged in planning, scheduling, and organization reported a higher GPA , less somatic tensions, and a higher satisfaction with life compared to those who lacked prioritization. As the article explains, the reasons behind these positive revelations were a result of students benefiting from the time management seminars and learning the knowledge of how to control time (6-9). Although this finding does not account for every undergraduate student in every university, the finding does reveal the advantages of acquiring good time management skills. Inefficient time management leads to procrastination, distractions, restlessness, and a lack of punctuality that creates tension when being approached by the deadlines. These factors jeopardize the student’s work quality and their overall course grade. Granted, not finishing the assigned work for a job in a timely manner can negatively affect their job performance, which may cause problems with their employer and inhibit possible promotion to a higher position. Therefore, it is crucial for the students to learn how to allocate their time efficiently and develop a reliable time management reputation throughout college and the workforce.   	
Similar to managing time, learning to cope with stress and ways to reduce the interpersonal and intrapersonal stressors are key aspects towards having a clear mind and good health. In the article, “Promoting Psychosocial Adjustment and Stress Management in First-Year College Students: The Benefits of Engagement in a Psychosocial Wellness Seminar”, Collen S. Conley, Lea V Travers, and Fred B. Brayant conducted a research study on first year college students over an eight-month period to evaluate the effectiveness of engaging them in a psychosocial wellness seminar. The mental health and stress management strategies on college students conveyed a positive correlation between their academic performance and college adaptation. Compared to the control students who engaged in an alternative seminar not related to promoting mental health, the experimental students who were a part of the wellness seminar every week revealed a reduction in psychological distress, adjusted to college more readily, reflected positive well-being, and effectively navigated stressors they faced (81-83). The results from this study suggested that effective stress management techniques prove to be advantageous in the overall well-being of first-year college students as they adjust to a new environment. More specifically, the ability to combat the expected stressors of the rigorous college courses and the unfamiliar environment for incoming college students can be difficult, especially when it is unknown what resources are available to help them relieve the stress. Learning to manage stress alongside other students who may exhibit similar stress over the overwhelming workload of classes, nervousness for exams, or the unexpected future will be beneficial because they will be comfortable in knowing that they are not the only ones feeling this tension. They will learn the appropriate techniques to help them have a clearer mind and minimize the stressors that cause restlessness, anxiety, and unhealthy habits. Although some students may argue that stress allows them to work well under pressure, it is unknown what kinds of challenges they may encounter in the future and in the workforce. Therefore, it is better to prepare the students now before unexpected levels of stress arise which can be detrimental to the overall health of a person and may even lead to low job performance in the workforce. Learning relaxation techniques throughout this course will allow students to develop a healthy work-life balance.
Granted that incoming freshman are unfamiliar to the campus, University 1 guides students into learning to adapt and be flexible to changes that they will encounter at Anytown State.  The University 1 professors guide the students into finding the resources necessary to succeed in this unfamiliar environment. Since expectations of college professors differ from expectations of the high school teachers, learning the skills to accommodate and be comfortable with the new environment will allow the students to focus more on being academically and socially engaged. In regards to the undergraduate courses, the classes are always changing with professors having to adjust to new policies or new technological advances to better meet the needs of the students. Like the students, it is always necessary to adapt to the new learning environment as quickly as possible in order to fully concentrate on the learning material taught in class.  Similar to adapting to college, the demand for flexibility and adaptability to changes in the workforce is in high demand. According to the article, “Adaptable Behaviours for Successful Work and Career Adjustment”,  Barbara Griffin and Beryl Hesketh point out that over the last decade adaptive performance has been widely known as a “key competency for today’s employee” aside from the job specific skills (2). Griffin and Hesketh researched two organizations with a total of 626 employees by using the Minnesota Theory of Work Adjustment to measure the career development traits best suited for adaptability, and found that problem-focused strategies, self-efficacy, work requirements, and adaptability-related personality traits were the main contributors to an adaptive performance. The environmental and person-led changes such as technological advances and evolving developmental needs are prompting individuals to develop an adaptive orientation and skill set that will help them be an adequate fit between the employee’s needs and new requirements (7-8). Once the college students learn the methods of being flexible and enter the workplace, their employers will value the graduate’s ability to blend in and adapt to the duties of the job. Some may argue that their job lacks a changing environment; however, when it comes to unexpected changes, the employees readily available to adapt to new positions are the ones that are going above and beyond to meet the demands of the changing workforce. In a competitive job, the individuals most willing to abide by the new requirements or curriculum of the job have an advantage over individuals not open to change in the workplace. Despite the graduate’s major, society is constantly changing, and technology is becoming increasingly common in most jobs; therefore, it is always an advantage to have these internal skills at hand.
For the most part, the main purpose of college is to prepare the students with all the necessary knowledge in their field of study and graduate with the intention of obtaining a job soon after. However, before being hired for a job, being prepared beforehand to express competence for the job involves having a completed résumé and being prepared for the interview. In the article, “How to Write a Professional Knockout Résumé to Differentiate Yourself”, Dr. Joseph Akpan and Dr. Charles E. Notar argue that in today’s vastly competitive job marketplace job applicants have only one chance to capture the employer’s attention through their résumé. A well-developed résumé should outline the applicant’s strongest qualities, thoughtful objective, work related and academic experience, and credentials in a well-defined format in order to have the opportunity to be interviewed. The importance of a professional résumé reveals that the applicant is well-organized, determined, and is a desirable qualified candidate for the available position in comparison with other applicants (2-3). Because graduating with a degree comes with a title of being well prepared in the field of study, the employer has a preconceived view of what they expect to see from a graduate. Thus, if the employer expects to see a professionally written résumé and the applicants fail to live up to that expectation, then that may interfere with the opportunity to get interviewed at a further notice. Some employees may argue that some employers hire right on the spot without reviewing their résumé. Though I concede that a résumé may not be the only factor that employers look for when hiring applicants, when being compared to other applicants, the one that is more knowledgeable and has more experience with how they present themselves is going to have an advantage over those who do not have a résumé or lack the necessary components in the résumé. Even then, others agree that well written résumés have helped them get selected for a job while attending job fairs right on their college campuses. Hence, once students enroll in this skill course, they will be able to focus on career exploration and listen to career counselors discuss effective résumé writing that will differentiate them from other applicants in the competitive workforce.
On the contrary, the Anytown State faculty may claim that they are already teaching students these transferable skills by offering academic success workshops on certain times and days on topics such as time management, memory and concentration, and stress management. Including, students may argue that they do not want to pay the extra money to take a class if already have the resources available to them. While these workshops are available to students on campus and the students are highly encouraged to attend, the majority don’t attend. According to Anytown State’s Spring 2017 magazine, the total amount of students that attended the workshops in the spring of 2017 were 545 (Smith, 10). Compared to the 24,000 students that attend Anytown State, the number of students who attend these workshops is significantly small. Several reasons why the majority of students are not able to attend include time conflicts with other classes, they are not on campus, they are not aware of these workshops, or they simply do not want to attend because it’s not mandatory. As for the extra cost, University 1 is already listed in the life-long understanding and self-development portion of the general education classes college students already have to take. Thus, they won’t be spending  extra money because the college students will satisfy that requirement; and at the same time, they will be able to selectively choose a convenient time to adequately fit the course in their schedule. In the long-run, the students will benefit from learning these useful topics all throughout the semester and not just in one sitting which can be difficult to cover all the information. Since the students are required to pass the class just like any other general education requirement, they will have that extrinsic motivation to learn the material or they will have to take it again in order to graduate if they don’t pass. 
        	All in all, it is recognized that the main goal of universities and colleges is to prepare the students with the necessary knowledge relevant to their choice of study and guide them into the right job. Universities already make students take certain general education courses that they may not apply to their field of study, but they believe it is necessary to shape the students into a well-rounded person. For this reason, the university should have the same mentality towards the courses that provide students with the transferable skills that can apply towards any job. Making first-year students take University 1 will enrich them with effective time management skills, stress reduction methods, a strong goal setting environment, flexibility skills, and résumé writing skills that will prepare them with what to expect as they graduate college and search for a job. Because the students will have to take the course their first year, they will be able to apply these skills in the rest of their classes and will have the same opportunity as their colleagues to succeed. With the fast pace of college it is difficult for every professor to teach these transferable skills to their students; therefore, University 1 will focus on teaching these lifelong skills that will benefit their learning in the long run. Anytown State students will be more prepared and have a competitive advantage over other graduates who lack these essential skills.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
















Works Cited

Akpan, Joseph and Charles E. Notar. "How to Write a Professional Knockout Resume
to Differentiate Yourself." College Student Journal, vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 880-891. EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=84271985&site=ehost-live. Accessed 24 October 2017.

Conley, Colleen S., Lea V. Travers, and Fred B. Bryant. "Promoting psychosocial adjustment
and stress management in first-year college students: The benefits of engagement in a
psychosocial wellness seminar." Journal of American College Health 61.2 (2013): 75-86. Accessed 23 October 2017.
 
Griffin, Barbara, and Beryl Hesketh. "Adaptable behaviours for successful work and career
adjustment." Australian Journal of psychology 55.2 (2003): 65-73. Accessed 23 October 2017.
 
Smith, Casey. "Article Title." Magazine 2
017 Spring 2017: 9-10. Web. 28 Oct. 2017. Accessed 24 October 2017.
 
Macan, Therese H., et al. "College students' time management: Correlations with academic
performance and stress." Journal of educational psychology 82.4 (1990): 760. Accessed 24 October 2017.
 
Schunk, Dale H. "Goal setting and self-efficacy during self-regulated learning." Educational
psychologist 25.1 (1990): 71-86. Accessed 23 October 2017.
