Illustration Essay

In our everyday life from teens to adult uses social media such as Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, etc. for showing off, entertainment and knowing about what is happening around world. Little do they know that these social media are ruining their lives more than it entertains them. Social media can have positive and negative impact on our everyday life. Facebook and other social media has a negative impact and ruining many people life giving them bad credits, getting a job, and illegal immigrants.
	In the text, it says that “Whether you obtain a job, credit or insurance can be based on your digital doppelganger-and you may never know why you’ve been turn down”. Lori states that” The bits and bytes about your life can easily be used against you.” The facts Lori gave us was that “Employers sometimes decide where to hire people based on their online profiles, with one study indicating that 70% of recruiters and human professional in the United States have rejected candidates based on online data found”. My cousin was turned down from a job because he had cursed too much on his social media. Another time my friend was turned down a job because he had a picture of his smoking weed in his profile picture.
Lori Andrews provided information about immigrants getting sent back to their country because of Facebook. She says” The IRS searches Facebook and Myspace for evidence of tax invaders income and whereabouts, and the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has been known to scrutinize photos and posts to confirm family relationship our weed out sham marriages. There are several stories where people been tracked down and deported to due to the internet. My Aunt was sent back to Egypt due to her posting so much picture of herself in America after her time was up in America.
In the text “Facebook is Using You” it tells us that a guitar player or someone that is getting a divorce are more likely to renege on their credit card bills, then the fact that you look at guitar ads or sent an email to a divorce lawyer might cause data aggregator to classify you as less-credit worthy. She provided an example of when an Atlanta man returned from his honeymoon, he found that his credit limit had been to lower to $3,800 from $10,800. The switch was not based on anything he had done but on the aggregate data. A letter from the company told him, “Other customers who have used their card at the establishments where you recently shopped have a poor repayment history with American Express”. The law allows us to challenge false information in credit report but there are no laws that require aggregators to reveal what they know about you. My mom had a history of shopping online a lot but one time she didn’t shop online they had said she was shopping but that month she didn’t shop and she was able to challenge it because the purchase was made in California and we live in Maryland.
Andrews argues vigorously against the use of the popular social networking sites. Facebook have ruin many people lives in many ways, from the IRS scamming fraud marriages to people getting rejected of a job. People should stop using the internet and social media less. Every day the internet and social media finds way to look in to people lives. So it is very important to stay away from it.
