Informal Written Response
Solomon’s Son
	Andrew Solomon’s Son reflects on his time as a child and the idea of abnormal characteristics being viewed as defects in modern society.  Solomon, a “defect” himself, describes his younger days as an openly gay man, and the struggles he faced from his parents and peers.    Solomon begins his analysis with the concept of two separate identities which he names vertical and horizontal identities.  Solomon states that vertical identities are inherited from a child’s parents, “Because of the transmission of identity from one generation to the next, most children share at least some traits with their parents (369).”  In every child’s upbringing, children are encouraged to adhere to their parents’ vertical identity.  This includes things like shared cultural norms as well as genetics.  Ethnicity, religion, and language can all be considered vertical identities that are passed down from parent to child.  The horizontal identity that Solomon discusses is inherited from a friend group and is “foreign” to a child’s parents.  Solomon states that gayness, deafness, and physical disabilities are all considered to be horizontal identities, or rather “recessive genes, random mutations, prenatal influences, or values and preferences that a child does not share with his progenitors (370).”  This concept of horizontal identity implies that the horizontal identity developed by a child is not desired by their parent, “Vertical identities are usually respected as identities; horizontal ones are often treated as flaws (371).”  I found Solomon’s argument to be very compelling and relatable to my life and the lives of many of my peers.  Solomon draws a parallel between the deaf and gay communities.  Both communities are viewed as abnormal by the majority of society.  Both communities face challenge and hardship in the world they were born.  Both communities are defective and different in the eyes of humanity.  In the end, Solomon wants his audience to quit viewing gay people, deaf people, and “different people” as defects, and instead he wants us to see these qualities as part of their identity.  This is extremely important in my generation today.  Every day, there is someone “different” that I meet.  College is the most diverse place I’ve ever been, and I meet someone different from myself constantly.  Instead of shaming the difference, we must embrace it.  Solomon says that “Difference units us.  While each of these experiences can isolate those who are affected, together they compose an aggregate of millions whose struggles connect them profoundly (371).”  
	Solomon’s excerpt is organized into paragraphs that each relate to a different topic at hand.  Solomon provides his description of both vertical and horizontal identities, and then supports his ideas with his own personal experiences throughout the remainder of the essay.  Solomon draws on his audience’s emotion when recounting his childhood story of the pink balloon that his mom would not allow him to have, “I wanted a pink one.  My mother countered that I didn’t want a pink balloon and reminded me that my favorite color was blue (374).”  This encounter, along with Solomon’s exclusion from Bobby Finkel’s birthday party, demonstrates how Solomon was viewed as an outsider among his peers and family.  Solomon’s writing then shifts to his struggle of conformity and attempts at normalizing himself through Playboy magazines and uncomfortable thoughts of sex with women.  Solomon even goes on to describe the teachers in his school that lost their jobs over their sexuality.  All of these situations show the negative impact that society has on those who are abnormal, where even Solomon felt “imprisoned” by his homosexuality.  Finally, Solomon reaches his thesis on page 379, stating that “an intolerant society creates self-hating people who act out inappropriately.”  Societies intolerance to difference and the treatment of identity as an illness fosters a harmful community.  What society must realize is that everyone in this world is different.  We all possess something that makes us unlike from everyone else, and if we didn’t the world would be an incredibly boring place.  It is time that we embrace these differences in a world that is far divided.   Stephen Covery said that “Strength lies in differences, not in similarities” and Coco Chanel said “In order to be irreplaceable, one must always be different.”  It is good to be different.  Difference has, and will always be, the thing that unites us all.
