Purple Hibiscus Literary Analysis
	“Purple Hibiscus” is Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s first and well-known novel published in 2003 that2003, which has received prestigious awards over the years. In Purple Hibiscus, Chimamanda talked extensively about Kambili’s life and relationship with her family and most especially, Kambili’s father. Papa was someone whothat was loved and respected in public, but at home, he was a different person that used God to make excuses for things he did to his family. After reading “Purple Hibiscus,” a possible analytic question could be “In what ways was Eugene’s relationship complex with the people around him?” Chimamanda uses iIrony, dDialectction, and iImagery to express Eugene’s complex relationships.
Irony is a literary device that uses words to convey a meaning that is opposite of its literal meaning. Irony is used to express Papa’s complex relationship through his behavior to the public versus his behavior with outsiders. Papa has always been like a mini-god to a lot of people because of his generosity and this may cause people to have a belief that he was always nice and caring to his family as well. Ironically, even though he still takes care of his family, he does it with violence and he ends up hurting his family rather than showing them the same compassion and understanding that he shows to the public. For Instance, Papa has always had the good intentions for his children to be successful and confident when they grow up. However, instead of building them up positively to be successful, he raised them up negatively and made them less confident, which is why he always used God as the excuse whenever he did violent things to them and blaming the devil, not realizing that he is the main reason for everything. He always justified his actions by saying “everything I do for you; I do for your own good” making them think that he was treating them badly for positive results. An example of irony would be when Jaja started rebelling against his father and his rules, he even disrespected his father by talking back at him saying, “Mba, there are no words in my mouth.”. This serves as an irony because Papa raised and shaped his children up with strong Catholic beliefs and kept them away from the real world using the same Catholic rules. However, even though Jaja grew up with those beliefs, he ended up not truly believing in them because when he saw the real world, he realized his father lied to him about a lot of things. 
	The Igbo language is one of the well-known languages in the western part of Africa that was mentioned in the book, which relates to the literary device known as Dialect. Dialect expresses Papa’s relationship because even though he mostly grew up in a place that the Igbo language was spoken, he still does notn’t like it when his children speak it to him because it is notn’t civilized to him. Even though Papa does notn’t like the Igbo language, he is able to tolerate when other people speak it, but at the same time, he secretly prefers it when the town people speak English to him instead of Igbo. And whenever Papa is in public places, he “changed his accent when he spoke, sounding British.” However, in his house, he forbids the speaking of Igbo but at the same time, he also speaks Igbo when he is angry at his family members and he hardly speaks Igbo in public. For Instance, when Jaja refused to eat with the family, he spoke Igbo briefly by asking “gbo?” Also, Papa speaks Igbo with his sister when they were arguing about taking care of their sick father. The argument got so heated that Papa’s sister cursed Papa in Igbo by saying “Uchu gba gi.”
	Irony is another literary device used that uses words to convey a meaning that is opposite of its literal meaning. Irony is used to express Papa’s complex relationship through his behavior to the public and personally. Papa has always been like a mini God to a lot of people because of his generosity and this may cause people to have a belief that he was always nice and caring to his family as well. Ironically, in reality, even though he still takes care of his family, he does it with violence and he ends up hurting his family rather than showing them the same compassion and understanding that he shows to the public. For Instance, Papa has always had the good intentions for his children to be successful and confident when they grow up. However, instead of building them up positively to be successful, he raised them up negatively and made them less confident, which is why he always used God as the excuse whenever he did violent things to them and blaming the devil, not realizing that he is the main reason for everything. An example of Irony would be when Jaja started rebelling against his father and his rules. This serves as an irony because Papa raised and shaped his children up with Catholic beliefs and kept them away from the real world using the same catholic rules. However, even though Jaja grew up with those beefs, the ended up not truly believing in them because when he saw the real world, he realized his father lied to him about a lot of things. Relatively, “Things Fall Apart” by Chinua Achebe is a book with a protagonist, Okonkwo who is a firm believer and enforcer of the traditions and customs of his village. His beliefs were what led to his downfall. He was exiled from his hometown based on his beliefs, and he killed someone he considered as a child because of his beliefs. Likewise, his son didn’t truly believe in his father’s religion just like Jaja began to gradually disobey his father. Okonkwo lost everything because he wasn’t willing to be open-minded and try new things.
	Lastly, vVisual iImagery uses particular words that create visual representation of ideas in our mind. Imagery is a commonly used device that writers use to connect to the reader’s senses by bringing the readers into the story through the use of words to create a picture in the reader’s imagination. It is also used to heighten the effect of language and is often an extension of word choice. When Papa and the family went to their family house, Papa is described to look like an angel in human form that attended to a lot of people and he also helped people a lot in ways that he could. However, even though wePapa’s positive side can be visualized around outsiders, his negative side can also be visualized visualize what Papa looks like positively, we still have the other negative side of him that is fully active around his family. For example, when Papa punished Kambili by “pouring hot water on her feet in the bathtub,” readerswe could picture visualize the images in theirour minds because of the words used to describe the events by the writer. Another example would be when Papa intended to throw a figurine at Jaja but missed, he “flung his heavy missal across the room and broke the figurines on the étagère.” intended to throw the figurine at Jaja but missed. All of these events could be visualized in the reader’sour minds because of how they were worded by the writer.
	No matter how nice and compassionate a person is publicly, do notn’t assume that the person acts the same at home with their families or privately because every person has two sides to them. Embracing the culture passed down by the ancestors should also be taken seriously because each culture and tradition is beautiful in its own way, and it is also a part of us that should notn’t be taken for granted. We should notn’t let our religious or traditional beliefs affect our relationships with people because if they are notn’t practiced correctly; it could cause problems in our lives.
