The Professional Proficiency on the Use of 
Force When It is Unknown if a Suspect Has a Weapon















Abstract
This paper has to deal with discussing the life and death situations that occur all the time for police officers across the United States. These situations involve weapons and people. These people have the intention to use these weapons for evil rather than good. Now the problem is, what should law enforcement officers do in situations where there is a potential for a weapon to be involved, but they cannot prove beyond a reasonable doubt, at the time, that the suspect has a weapon. A law enforcement officer must be able to make a split-second decision on what to do. What should they do, one may ask? Some people believe that police officers should not use any force or only the force permitted for what the officer can confirm what the suspect possesses. Others believe that all suspects should be treated as if they are armed. This question can also be taken a step further. What force should a police officer use if it is seen that the suspect may be holding a weapon, but it cannot be confirmed if the weapon is real or not? These questions on what the correct amount of force to be used if it is unknown if the suspect possesses a weapon is what this paper will be discussing.









The Professional Proficiency on the Use of 
Force When It is Unknown if a Suspect Has a Weapon
	To shoot or not to shoot is the real question. Police officers must deal with those situations when dealing with suspects. Suspects are informed not to move while being placed under arrest, yet sometimes these people will move their hands to their body in what police officers assume they are reaching for a weapon. There are cases that people have been shot and killed by police officers when they were unarmed. So, what should police officers do in these situations? What is the most effective and efficient way to handle suspects if it cannot be confirmed if they have a weapon or not? Should police officers treat all suspects as if they are armed? Should they do absolutely nothing until they can identify a weapon and confirm the suspect was in possession of a weapon? There is a gap in training, some people say, that police officers need to be able to judge better how to handle situations, and not have discharging a firearm be the first response in a potentially dangerous situation. The National Institute of Justice (NIJ) and Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) have composed a use-of-force continuum that includes five levels of force. They are, in order from the most non-lethal to lethal: the officer’s presence, verbalization, empty-hand control, less-lethal methods and lethal force (National Institute of Justice [NIJ], 2009). There are many ways to handle a suspect, but which is the safest and most effective, lethal or non-lethal, for the community and law enforcement officers that are involved in a life or death situation? 
Non-Lethal Force
	Officers decide on the use of force as to how a citizen is acting, which “shape[s] the actions [they] will take.” (Crawford & Burns, 2008) The use of non-lethal force has been taught to law enforcement officers to avoid unnecessary deaths when dealing with suspects. Police officers have plenty of options when using non-lethal force, which include: the officer’s presence, verbalization, and empty-hand control. These are the most used and most successful uses of force when dealing with a suspect, but will these be the best option when dealing with a suspect who possesses a weapon or if the suspect has the intent to hurt someone or the officer? With an officer’s presence, it really depends on what the situation that the officer was called to in terms of the hostility of the suspects and what actions they might take against the officer. A police officer can also use their voice to control a situation and make a suspect stop what they are doing. Although these are great tactics to maintain peace when the law enforcement officers are activated if a suspect possesses a weapon and intends to use it these tactics provide a lack of safety to the officer or the public. The last type of non-lethal uses of force is the use of empty-hand control, which includes soft and hard techniques.  Soft techniques consist of grabs, locks, and holds while hard techniques consist of punches and kicks in order to restrain an individual. These techniques are beneficial when a suspect is within arm’s reach of a law enforcement officer, but many times a suspect that has a firearm or weapon starts farther away and it is physically impossible to use these techniques to gain control of a situation. While non-lethal force is the best outcome for all situations, there is no evidence to suggest that non-lethal force is the safest way to protect the public or officer’s when a suspect is not known to possess a weapon.
Less Lethal Force
	Another way for law enforcement officers to handle suspects when it is unknown if they have a weapon or not, but the suspect is being difficult is through the use of less lethal force. Less lethal force uses assisted devices in order to bring a suspect down. Batons, Tasers and chemicals are the typical ways that law enforcement officers take down suspects that are being difficult and the non-lethal uses of force have not or will not work. It has been a public opinion that law enforcement officers have not used the proper amount of less lethal force, but rather use excessive force which leads to lethal force when a suspect was thought to have possessed a weapon but instead the officer was mistaken and the object was not actually a weapon. Less lethal force is a great option and does work. Tasers, chemicals, and batons are useful tools in bringing down a suspect, but if that suspect has a weapon it is illogical to use certain tools. A baton is only useful for up close encounters and if the suspect has a weapon the officer is put at risk for injury if attempting to stop the suspect. Chemicals are useful in getting the suspect to stop due to pain, but just at batons require a close-up encounter. Tasers are also very effective, unless the suspect is under the influence of a substance or happens to have more body fat, both of these factors can make it illogical to use tasers at certain instances. With the use of less lethal force, it is more practical to use it, but in life or death situations will it effectively protect everyone involved?
Lethal Force
	Law enforcement officers utilize lethal force when there is a life or death situation where the officer themselves or public safety is at risk. They are allowed “to use nearly all types of force against nearly all types of resistance…” (Terrill & Paoline, 2012), which includes lethal force if a major threat of a weapon is involved. While this is the worst-case scenario option, it is utilized to protect people in the officer’s mind. Every year “there is an annual average of 360 cases of police use of deadly force in the United States…” (Donner, Maskaly, Piquero & Jennings, 2017). All officers that use their weapons in the line of duty use them due to the fact that they believe there is a risk to personal safety of themselves or the public. There have been many cases where a suspect has been shot and killed even when it was found out that the suspect had no weapon, but due to actions of the suspect the law enforcement officers had to use lethal force in order to protect themselves and the public. Lethal force is a terrible thing to use, but if used properly and in good faith should it be allowed to be used without scrutiny?
Conclusion
	The use of force is greatly challenged, but officers are trained to “their agency’s less lethal use of force policy” (Paoline & Terrill, 2011) in order to handle suspects in all aspects. If an officer is threatened with the potential use of a weapon, the officer has the same right as any fellow American would have in protecting themselves to discharge their firearm in protecting themselves and the public. Officers should be able to use the amount of force they deem necessary for a situation they deem to be dangerous with the immediate threat of a weapon being used. 













References
Crawford, C., & Burns, R. (2008). Police use of force: assessing the impact of time and space. Policing & Society, 18(3), 322-335. doi: 10.1080/10439460802292926
Donner, C., Maskaly, J., Piquero, A., & Jennings, W. (2017). Quick on the draw: Assessing the Relationship between low self-control and officer-involved police shootings. Police Quarterly, 20(2), 213-234. doi: 10.1177/1098611116688066
National Institute of Justice. (2009). The Use-of-Force Continuum. Washington, D.C.
Paoline, E., & Terrill, W. (2011). Listen to me! Police officers’ view of appropriate use of force. Journal of Crime and Justice, 34(3), 178-189. doi: 10.1080/0735648X2011.609740
Terrill, W., & Paoline, E. (2012). Examining less lethal force policy and the force continuum: Results from a national use-of-force study. Police Quarterly, 16(1), 38-65. doi: 10.1177/1098611112451262
