
Glass Farming
Pesticides have long been used in farming to help increase crop yields, but not without harmful consequences to the environment. In recent years, the overuse of pesticides has caused huge environmental impacts. A recent example is the effect pesticides have on honey bee populations in the United States. Wild and domesticated honey bees are both extremely important to the pollination of hundreds of plants species, including many of the plants humans consume. Because pesticides are so important for the success of commercial farming it is pertinent that a solution is found to minimize the impact on the honey bee. By proposing two different solutions for farmers a solution to pesticide use can be achieved. One solution is to convert to greenhouse farming to prevent the use of pesticides, increase crop production and farm more sustainably. The second solution is to invest more research and time into understanding how to best manage pesticides so they have a minimal impact on the environment and to look at how pesticides are affecting honey bees.  
The first thing that comes to mind when thinking about a greenhouse is the expense. A top of the line greenhouse sized at forty-two by seventy-two feet can cost nearly $40,000 (“Texan Teaching Greenhouse.”); a price that would surely raise an eyebrow. On top of the initial cost of buying a greenhouse, energy cost for lighting, heating, and cooling can also be expensive for farmers. Since farmers would be working inside and in smaller space tractors and plows would no longer be needed. Therefore, farmers would need to invest in new equipment for managing crops inside the greenhouse. While the initial cost would be expensive, long-term benefits of higher crop yields, more efficient growing methods, and no pesticide use would far outweigh the cost.
As proposed, another alternative solution to the crisis at hand would be to simply devote more research into pesticides. The research would look at how pesticides are applied to crops, alternatives to pesticides, and how they continue to affect key pollinator species such as the honeybee. Some may argue that spending time researching further into pesticides would take too long before significant data was found. Others may say that research for pesticides would be too costly and the money would be better spent researching different issues. As time-consuming and costly as research may be, it is one of the few options left to save honey bees and the environment.
    Some background on the relationship of pesticides and the environment is needed in order to fully understand why a solution for pesticide use is needed. Pesticides known as neonicotinoids can be found on “95 percent of corn and canola crops; the majority of cotton, sorghum, and sugar beets; and about half of all soybeans” in the United States (Grossman). The problem with having 95% of the United States crops covered in neonicotinoids is that they are water soluble. Meaning that during a large rainstorm or routine crop watering, they can enter into nearby bodies of water as runoff and are absorbed by the roots of trees and flowers (Dengler). It seems counterintuitive to use pesticides on crops that will be washed away and need to be reapplied after every rain. It is not ideal to have pesticides running off into the environment where they are not intended to be. 
Greenhouse farming is not a new idea. Since the 2000s the Netherlands has been pushing hard for more sustainable farming methods. In response, farmers began integrating more technology into their methods to reduce pesticide and water use while increasing crop yield. Eventually, this gave way to greenhouse farming. Since switching over to greenhouses many farmers have reduced water dependency by nearly ninety percent, and reduced pesticide uses almost to none (Viviano and Locatelli). Many farmers who practice greenhouse farming use solar panels and wind energy in order to provide 24-hour light and temperature control for their crops year-round. By using solar and wind power, farmers avoid having to pay costly electric bills (Viviano and Locatelli). Furthermore, by using renewable energy farmers are able to power their indoor farms year-round and continue growing crops even out of season. This practice nearly doubles the amount of food produced with half the land space, less water and no pesticides (Viviano and Locatelli).  While the initial investment in greenhouse farming equipment is still expensive, the benefit for farmers and the environment far outweighs the cost.
Some may be thinking, “how will plants pollinate?” or “What about the bees that depend on pollinating plants for survival?”.  To prevent honey bees being harmed by pesticides and instead of farmers investing money in expensive artificial pollination methods, farmers and beekeepers can work together as they are now allowing beehives to be placed inside the greenhouses. The honeybees would pollinate the plants for the farmers and still produce honey for the beekeepers to sell. Since the greenhouses do not need to use harmful pesticides such as neonicotinoids, the bees run no risk of being harmed and can thrive year-round in climate-controlled greenhouses. 
Since the initial cost for a greenhouse is expensive, and traditional farming cannot meet demand without pesticide use, a compromise is being proposed; better management practices should be taken into consideration when applying pesticides to crops. Instead of carelessly over spraying fields, with pesticides such as neonicotinoids, farmers should be more aware of when they are spraying crops. In recent studies, it has been found that pesticides actually stay with a plant through the entire growing process when applied to seedlings. Previously it was believed that pesticides were only present on a plant when the crop was in bloom (Dengler). Knowing this, farmers should take more care to not spray pesticides on seedlings, even if it means having a slightly smaller yield. By not spraying on seedlings, honeybees specifically would be exposed to fewer pesticides because the pesticides will not be as present in seedlings sprayed with pesticides. 
Furthermore, in recent research, it has suggested that honey bees may actually benefit from lower doses of pesticides. The original study looked at the close relative if honeybees, the bumblebee. It was found that by reducing the number of pesticides that the bumblebees were exposed to, they began to work more, live longer, and reproduce more frequently (Cutler and Rix 1368-1370). The process the bumblebees went through is known as Hormesis, which is “a biphasic dose response whereby exposure to low doses of a stress can stimulate biological process” (Cutler and Rix 1368-1370). Reducing pesticides amounts on crops could be a simple way to reduce the environmental impact of pesticides. I am not saying that using fewer pesticides on crops will solve all of the problems for the honeybee but could possibly prevent more unnecessary harm to the pollinators of the world. While using fewer pesticides may not be as effective in stopping unwanted insects from munching on crops, it is one solution to helping prevent further damage to honeybees and the environment.
    Another aspect of the proposed solution would be to simply research alternative methods to using pesticides. Little to no research has been done on possible alternative pesticides uses on large-scale commercial farms. While taking time to research will not provide any immediate solutions, in the long run, it could provide a game-changing solution to the issue of pesticides.
Greenhouse farming could be a great solution to a large number of agricultural problems. However, it is understandable that many will be hesitant about initial cost and upkeep of such large and high-tech greenhouses. It will not be easy to convert an entire industry. Change needs to begin with the individual supporting legislation for sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture methods. With improving pesticide use there will still be challenges. Research for alternative pesticides methods will need to find funding, and using lower doses of pesticides on crops will need to be strictly enforced. Greenhouse farming or better pesticide management is not impossible to implicate but it will need to be fought for, in order to save honey bees and the environment. Changing our way of agriculture will be the comprise to save the bees.












Works Cited
Cutler, G Christopher, and Rachel R Rix. “Can Poisons Stimulate Bees? Appreciating the Potential of Hormesis in Bee-Pesticide Research.” Pest Management Science, vol. 71, no. 10, June 2015, pp. 1368–1370. Wiley Online Library, doi:10.1002/ps.4042.
Dengler, Roni. “Neonicotinoid Pesticides are Slowly Killing Bees.” PBS Newshour, 29 June 2017, http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/neonicotinoid-pesticides-slowly-killing-bees/. Accessed 2 October 2017.
Grossman, Elizabeth. “Declining Bee Populations Pose a Threat to Global Agriculture.” Yale Environment 360, 30 April 2013, https://e360.yale.edu/features/declining_bee_populations_pose_a_threat_to_global_agriculture. Accessed 25 October 2017.
“Texan Teaching Greenhouse.” Greenhouse Megastore, 21 May 2010, www.greenhousemegastore.com/product/texan-teaching-greenhouse/school-teaching-packages?gclid=CjwKCAjw7MDPBRAFEiwAppdF9Dd1yS7GAXV6HDD9-1W6r0ZJyIPxVRVewvnxT_6KXsBF3epdXP8WThoC_IUQAvD_BwE.
Viviano, Frank, and Luca Locatelli. “This Tiny Country Feeds the World.” National Geographic, 31 Aug. 2017, www.nationalgeographic.com/magazine/2017/09/holland-agriculture-sustainable-farming/.
