

“Neat People vs. Sloppy People” by Suzanne Britt is about the comparison between a neat person’s and sloppy person’s qualities and habits. Being a neat person doesn’t show how much a person cares or doesn’t care about the things in their life. Instead, it shows that they are reliable, hard workers and precise. 



In the text, “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” by Suzanne Britt, she talks about the differences between neat people and sloppy people. In the text she describes neat people as bums, heartless, and lazy all which is not true. Neat people are reliable because you can count on them to get anything done vs. sloppy people. In the text Suzanne says, “Neat people don’t care about the process. They like results. What they want to do is get the whole thing over with, so they can sit down and watch the rasslin’ on TV.” By describing neat people as wanting to get things done so they can relax just shows that you can depend on them to get things done, you can count on them doing what they’re supposed to do because they just want it to be over with which is nothing wrong with that. If I had my own business and a neat person acts just as Suzanne is describing them I would hire this person because I know they would want to get the job done just to enjoy their own time. This example does not only show that they are reliable, but it also shows that they are hard workers, another point I’ve made about neat people. 



As stated in my previous paragraph not only are neat people reliable, but they are hard workers. Neat people would rather get the job done to go back to doing what they like to do. That is a hard worker to me because they’ll get right on the job no matter what just to make the process go faster. I consider myself a neat person, I have my days where I can be messy but If I am presented with a task, I’ll jump right on it, so I can enjoy the rest of my day. One time in high school we were given a senior project to do in December and it wasn’t due until April. Once I was given my project I decided to start on it right away because I had so many plans for my senior year. I had prom, graduation, and my birthday coming up, so I just decided to get it done now so I can enjoy the rest of my time. I finished my project by the ending of December and by the time it was time to grade the projects I was all ready and ended up getting a good score. In the end, I did well on my project and got to enjoy my own free time without having to worry about doing that project. I worked hard to get it done so I wouldn’t stress myself out over it so regardless of me trying to hurry to get it done to get back to “watching rassin’ on TV” like Suzanne would say, I got the job done and did great. Not only are neat people reliable and hard workers, they are also precise.



You can almost count on a neat person to get anything done because they are reliable, hard working and precise. If neat people weren’t precise they would not be reliable or hard workers. In the text, Suzanne says “Neat people operate on two unvarying principles: Never handle any item twice and throw everything away.” Once neat people take care of something the first time there is no need for it to be handled again because they pay very close attention to it the first time and handle it accordingly. This can be a very great principle because if you run a business you would want someone precise as neat people are because once they take care of an issue/situation and pay very close attention to everything so there’s no need to go through it again, it can potentially save time and money. Suzanne also states, “I knew a neat person once who threw away a perfectly good dish drainer because it had mold on it.” Neat people pay attention to the little things and if it isn’t up to par for them then they will toss it for something new and better. Nothing wrong with wanting better right? 



Overall, neat people are not bums, carless, and rude. They always want better and to get the job done right the first time. If I ever own my own business I would rather hire a neat so called rude person vs. a sloppy person. You can always depend on them, know that they will get their work done and pay close attention to the very little details.