God Grew Tired of Us—7 questions 

Explain how ethnocentrism could contribute to the conflict in Sudan. 

A major factor in the war was probably the differences in the two cultures of Sudan with Arabs in the north and black Christians in the south. In war people tend to demonize the other side based on their differences in religion, race and/or culture. Ethnocentrism may provide an excuse for people in war to be cruel to their opponents, with the line of thinking being that because your opponents are so different, they are inferior and not worthy of living.



What were some differences, culturally; you noticed in the film between the American culture and the Sudanese refugee’s culture—make sure to provide specific examples from the film of the cultural differences. 


One major difference between American culture and Sudanese culture is that in Sudan they did not have to work all day to get by; they had time to spend hanging out with friends and family. In America, they did not have a lot of leisure time. Another major difference is that in America food was pretty much always assured, so long as they worked hard, they would make money and be able to go buy food. In Sudan, food was not assured, it was not dependent on how hard they worked. It was simply a matter of some days they got enough food but other days they didn’t.




Provide some specific examples from the film as to how the Sudanese refugees were resocialized to American culture.


By the end of the documentary, Panther has gotten a degree in economics and would like to help Sudan become wealthy like America through the nature resources found there. He plans on opening a school in Sudan and presumably teaching people about things like economics and things that may lead to his country becoming wealthier. Panthers ideas seem to be more American (or at least capitalist) inspired and different from ideas traditionally found in tribal settings like the ones he probably grew up with.

Why do you think John Bul Dau stressed the importance of the younger Sudanese generation staying in touch with their Dinka culture? 

There were a lot of aspects John Bul Dau and the other Sudanese men saw in American culture that they did not like, like people being less friendly, or working so much that you never had time for friends. With negative traits like these sometimes found in American culture, it is no wonder that John Bul Dau would be wary of younger generations following American culture over Sudanese culture. Also, John Bul Dau grew up with Sudanese culture, and I think people in general tend to be biased towards the culture they grew up with.



How does this film connect to the chapter on culture?—make sure to explain and use relevant examples.

A lot of this documentary is about culture and examples of cultural ideas discussed in the textbook can be seen all throughout the film. Social sanctions can be seen in the film when the Sudanese men would break social norms. Examples of these social sanctions can be seen in the form of staring when they are looking at all the things they have never seen before and also in the form of complaints to the local police by store owners because apparently them walking in a big group made owners uncomfortable. Examples of younger generations of immigrants embracing their new culture and moving away from their traditional culture can be seen in the younger Sudanese who are embracing American culture more fully than older generations.




Provide some examples from the film which illustrate as to how the “Lost Boys” experienced culture shock.  
They experience culture shock with how unfriendly Americans are in comparison to Sudanese. They also experience culture shock with how much they have to work and all of the luxuries they have available in America.





Reflect.  If YOU were in the same situation as one of these “lost boys” living in the United States and trying to adjust to a different culture, how would you feel?  Would you act or do anything differently than these boys?  Explain. 


The “lost boys” in this film consistently had a pretty optimistic attitude even after all they had been through when they were in a refugee camp in Kenya and even when America may have turned out to be not as great as they had hoped. I don’t think I would have such an optimistic attitude. I would feel pretty bad being in their situation of having to work two jobs all day, having been separated from most of your friends and not getting to spend time with the remaining friends you still have because you have to work all day.
