A Promising Future Through Engineers
	A number of people point to the growing demands in the STEM field specifically civil engineering, as an opportunity for not only the advancement of the world, but one where any student can achieve success. Many high school applicants decide on civil engineering as their major because of the large demand, and their love for engineering, from past high school courses. The problem with this is that most students tend to not get the chance to actually, show their skill in engineering since according to Dog Days orientation “one third of the people in here will actually graduate with a bachelor’s degree of science in civil engineering.” (Dog Days, 1). The reasoning why number of students end up having such a hard time is because they are here to learn, on engineering, not about conceptual math courses, like calculus. Since this course is one of the so-called backbones of any engineering degree, a mastery of it is required. However, that is not the exact truth, since conceptual math makes almost no entry into what engineers do on a regular basis, and therefore should not be treated as a course where in everybody must excel. 
	For a majority of students their love of engineering is probably the problem-solving aspect of engineering. While the problem-solving part of engineering does relate to the math portion of engineering it doesn’t relate heavily to what we should place more attention on. For instance, a number of the applications done by an engineer often deal with less conceptual problems like solving for force, pressure, and other quantities of similarity. The typical math related problems for engineers usually have little to do with calculus. This is where the problem lies in the fact that a many school are wasting student’s times instructing them on material they will hardly use in their future careers. Not only does this not benefit the engineering student, but this also derails a student who may have been unable to obtain the class, and is forced to wait till next semester to take it. Instead of instructing on these topics a solution could better be formed by having students master concepts that they will use on an everyday basis like trigonometry, and algebra which are more readily used to find, or calculate values when needed. Further reassuring these skills would produce better engineers, and would help them further help more students complete their majors.
	Not only would changing the math courses needed help produce better engineers, but it would also help improve the overall engineering field. The reason for this would be, because it would help by producing more engineering students since a majority of them don’t graduate due to the difficulty these math courses present. Some of the students who apply under the civil engineering major are not used to the difficult classes like calculus. Since, these courses present, challenges students could better benefit from the reassurance of their math skills. For instance, in “Achieving higher productivity in lower-level jobs: Is basic skills training the answer?” by Dorothy Lang, and Ursula Wittig-Berman, the authors argue “the reasoning that some of those who enter into these difficult majors may come from areas that may have not prepared them to the furthest extent, the students would benefit from training them at a lower level since it would help translate ideas and concepts used in engineering better, and into an easier language ” (Lane, & Wittig-Berman, 1778-1789).  A better understanding of these concepts can produce more engineers since it would only sharpen the key concepts needed for an engineer, while also producing more engineers who would otherwise be weeded out by courses like calculus. This is only one of the many solutions to the relatively low graduation number in civil engineering due to the difficulty in civil engineering. 	
	In a number of schools, a main focus of the engineering department is usually the math based courses as in “Developing an intensive math preparation program to enhance the success of underrepresented students in engineering” by Denise, Hum and Anna Marbella, Camacho where they argue that” the problem for a number of students is the lack of preparation for unnecessary courses, since a number of these math courses give no real value to their actual major, yet are hindered for not being prepared for them” (Camacho & Hum, 22-29).  The problem with this is that a number of students may possibly not be prepared for the math based courses they are expected to take. Since a number of these math based courses have little to do with their actual major, and are not what several students thought engineering would deal with they end up either dropping the course, and having to take it in the coming semester, or change majors because of the amount of work that is expected from them in courses like calculus. This trend can be resolved by easily transferring, from the learning objectives of calculus to something like focusing, and making sure engineering students fully understand, the concepts of trigonometry which in some cases are the hardest part of calculus, and is often why some students have trouble getting past the first calculus, because of their weak trigonometry background. This reason, alone should stand as evidence as to why focusing on courses like calculus, instead of trigonometry produces a low number, and unprepared number of engineers. The reason being that even if some engineering student who are having trouble in calculus do pass, some of the math courses the trend of difficulty will continue because of the lack of understanding. Not only will focus on these key elements of engineering, be beneficial to the student but it will also be beneficial to the engineering profession as a whole. 
	Reason being as to why the engineering companies will be better off once these changes occur is because of the fact that there will be enough engineers to fill up the high demand we currently have in the industry, since calculus will be removed, and replaced with a cementation of the foundation of skills like algebra, and trigonometry. Due to the better foundation, of skills employees will know how to better tackle problems, and come up with solutions since they will not rely on the memorization aspect of learning, but instead on the understanding. This in turn leads to the likelihood of producing better overall engineers to produce better results in their line of work weather that be construction, structural, or geomatics. A reformation of the skills taught in higher level learning has the potential to produce better taught engineers, and at the same time fill the need for more engineers. 
	Critics opposed to the idea will argue that calculus is needed in engineering since it helps students think critically about problems, that will result in the best possible solution. However, this is not the case since any subject can be made difficult, if they make it hard signifying that it is the way it is taught, and not the subject. A further example can be drawn from the fact that calculus should be made an optional class to further advance students if they want since it relies on the strong foundation of algebra, and trigonometry. 
	These actions are some that should be taken, simply because the benefits are so outstanding. For instance, this initiative brings the most out of students since it allows students to not waste their time with the difficult, and unnecessary calculus, while also cementing their foundation in what is really needed. Ralph Kahn in “Practical Uses of Math and Science (PUMAS)” argues “that basic skills and techniques can be further used to develop a firm understanding in areas like civil engineering, without the use of higher level, and more conceptual math” (Kahn, 698). The argument in the article further defines reason as to why the imitative must be taken, since it will only further advance the profession while also furthering the competitiveness of engineers helping produce better results as well.
.




















Works Cited 
Hun, Denise, and Anna M Camacho. “Measuring the Effectiveness of an Intensive Math 	Preparation Program to Enhance the Success of Underrepresented Students in 	Engineering.” June 2016, pp. 22–29., 
Lang, Dorothy, and urusla Wittig-Berman. “Achieving Higher Productivity in Lower-Level 	Jobs.” Https://Www-Engineeringvillage-Com., 2 Nov. 1996, .
Kahn, Ralph. Practical Uses of Math and Science (PUMAS). Vol. 2, IEEE, www-	engineeringvillage.com 
Dog Days Orientation. “Intro to civil engineering.” June 2017, pp. 1, California State University
