
Division
Throughout American history there has always been a divide, may it be between land, beliefs, or culture. There has always been a way to separate people either it be physically, socially or in it monetary values fueled by capitalism so that the government can seem just. In Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream, Why Poverty? This idea of the commonly misconstrued American Dream is brought up which is where freedom should have granted and where success and prosperity is possible. Based on the movie, success and freedom does not come as easy as it sounds. It only becomes harder to gain for those who are in lower classes of wealth. Due to the inequality gap between the rich and the poor, the poor will never reach their “American Dream” because of the economical racism placed on the urban community; the competitive capitalism of the workforce is harder for those who are on the lower scale of the economy; and the “subliminal” separation within the government and its representatives.
Capitalism has it initial ups and downfalls whether it is the competitiveness that is its double-edged sword or the greed that is plaguing this economic ideal. The rich have been in circumstances where they can thrive in that environment meanwhile the poor suffers with every blow dealt in this economy. Nowadays the workforce demands so much of their workers yet refuses to justly compensate for the work they are requesting. “There are some in society that have a lot of access, a lot of social mobility, a lot of resources to do the things they want. As opposed to other people who are more disadvantaged, more underprivileged, don’t have the same levels of resources (03:13-03:27) 2012.”
How can someone accomplish the American dream when their own surrounding community and resources are destroyed. The cause of gentrification in the lower and middle-class households spurred an ongoing cycle of foreclosure among homes and buildings that were left empty. The people who were affected by this the most were minorities. “In the 2005–09 ACS data, before the financial crisis took hold, high-poverty census tracts increased by nearly one-third, to 3,310 — nearly matching the 1990 figure. By 2009–13, an additional 1,100 tracts had poverty rates of 40 percent or more, bringing the total to 4,412. The overall increase in high-poverty census tracts since 2000 was 76 percent.” Economical racism is a form of latent discrimination that restricts individuals in gathering higher education and thriving in life, it is the underlying issue is this economy because companies refuse to establish in places where the poor can benefit from it.
The imagery presented by this false reality of the American Dream is to work hard, play hard and spend money. Easily gaining more money by increasing the workload until they gain enough wealth to carry out the American Dream. However, working harder with little to no profit is what most lower-class families must experience consistently. The government has heavier tax rates on the lower class, lower rate of pay, and higher educational requirements for better paying jobs.” Even with 12 million Americans unable to work, training and education programs are being slashed by both parties in favor of tax cuts for the rich. (37:00-37:09)2012.” Combining all these factors, they also require lower class citizens to over work to reach the bare minimum of accessible living conditions. “If you are a high school graduate and your parents were high school graduates, it’s likely that you are less well off than your parents, William Emmons, a St. Louis Fed economist, who co-authored the study.” Education is set as a high standard for having better jobs, a lot of middle and lower-class families do not have access to a better education like the upper class do, nor the money to pay for it.
 Within our governmental system we are led to make a choice, a label that comes with a heavy burden, the choice of your political party. Different views are associated with each side, and the further you delve into this, the further you are separated from each party. Opposing views create a sense of disfunction and distaste for the other side. Though the two parties act as separate parts, they must come together to have any laws/bills passed as this is a democratic nation, and this is where problems arise. Both parties have created an unbending hatred for each other to the point even important laws and bills will get denied just because the other party refuses to agree. A never-ending battle that has trickled down on its citizens, and the ones that are hurt the most are the lower class. They are left to pay large amounts of taxes, yet they barely make enough to live day to day.  “It’s about the wealth interests using the political system to rig the rules in their favor (15:21-15:26) 2012.”  While the 1% makes so much money that taxation is a laughable offense to them. If the lower class were not to pay taxes, jail, repossession or worse can occur. Due to the constant bickering and hatred between parties neither can agree on a common stance that can benefit everyone and still reach their goals. The goal of this economy is to continuously reproduce and supply good and the benefits are increase in wealth yet only the rich feast in these benefits while the poor are left with the bare minimum. 
Opponents of these views present several arguments. One of which being that the lower class are mooching off the rich by abusing welfare, and other government substantial rights. The working class doesn’t need to work if others will do all the work, and they gain all the profit, a typical thing that lazy people do. In the lower class so many people don’t work that due to welfare, food stamps, and disability checks providing everything needed to live. Another argument presented is that gentrification is done to rid the urban community of people who don’t pay, to make homes accessible to those who are willing to pay money. No one likes a person who is late on payments and has no way of paying bills. Foreclosures only help the lower class to finding homes as well. Finally, in Kansas, Governor Brownback’s plans for tax revision only made things for the middle class.” Meanwhile, lower taxes for wealthier Kansans have left the state scrambling for cash. The legislature, controlled by Republicans, confronted a deficit of $800 million this year.” This deficit has only increased over the years as funding for the educational system and government subsidized organizations have dwindled.  
However, these views can easily be refuted, due to the percentage of lower class citizens who work 60+ hours a week having more than one job to sustain an average paycheck to paycheck life. They are the new slaves of America, working for barely enough to live off, and it is only getting worse for the lower class. As foreclosures rupture throughout their community, and housing becomes limited the lower class are left to fight to the death just to profit. The way that most big lobbyists gain their money is through fighting against reforms that assist the lower class with money pooling their pockets from the 1% such as the Koch brothers. They manipulate the poor, who has little to no money, into working in factories doing hard labor for minute benefits. The 1% need the poor to manage the products they sell, so they live their fruitful lives in bliss aware of the hardships the poor experience daily. Without lower class citizens working under them, how would money come in? So, insinuating that the poor are not needed is preposterous because cheap labor is the best labor in the mind of the rich.  
The American Dream nowadays is a hard concept to grasp due the obstacles that block the path of success. Though for the poor they’re not on the field to join the race.  They are required to work harder, just to get a lucky break, to enter the race. Work hard and then play hard, though not everyone is given the opportunity to indulge in play after work. The jobs left for the lower class to work in, are a form of modern day slavery, hard labor left with little pay.  “Isn’t that proof of the American Dream, you work hard, and you’re successful (14:50-14:53).” Due to the never-ending cycle of abandonment from the government, the poor must work harder for less yet are required to give. Then, the stipulations for better paying jobs require a better education, but due to gentrification; schools and resources alike are destroyed and forgotten from neglect and loss of hope. The officials that reign over urban cities perpetually destroy lower class communities in favor for more money in their pockets. The American Dream has become a fictional feat for a plethora of American’s to reach though it is heavily stressed to reach.
