Maya Angelou’s tactical approach at persuasion
The communication between the audience and the author is specifically designed to incorporate the audience to take part in the author's cause. In “Letter to my Daughter” by Maya Angelou, through a couple of chapters, she attempts to try to and set an overall theme of inspiration, and wisdom for her book. She gets her point across, and tries to persuade her readers to believe in her ideals as a way of living life. She does this through a wide use of many rhetorical devices that attempt to get the reader to buy into her cause, such as through a use of pathos, ethos, the syntax, imagery, and context. Maya Angelou begins her book with a recounting of her life around eighty years before the book was published. She begins by giving her personal appeals on various instances in her life. It is best to begin to understand that Angelou’s rhetorical strategies by introducing some basic instances of rhetorical strategies we see every day as a reference for “Letter to My Daughter”. Rhetoric can present itself in any form of communication that makes an appeal to the audience to get them to believe in what they are saying. We usually see this today on social media through ads cleverly placed to make the user take part in their survey, or buy whatever product id being advertised. Rhetorical strategies rely on timing. Meaning that a there is a reason why you see an add about a hamburger when you are driving on the highway after a long road trip. They are used to influence based on certain conditions. 
Throughout Maya Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter” She makes the claim early on about growing up in the south, and the difficulties she saw.  Maya Angelou begins by claiming that “My real growing up world, in Stamps, was a continual struggle against a condition of surrender” (,1), and uses imagery to support her appeal, and attempt to get the reader to believe in her struggle of growing up in the racist south, and constantly facing abuse by saying “The South, in general, and Stamps, Arkansas, in particular had had hundreds of years’ experience in demoting even large adult blacks to psychological dwarfs.” (,1). She uses imagery to attempt to expand the scope of the reader to try and get the audience to see through Angelou’s eyes the abuse that was going on from such an early age. She ties this in with what A quote she disagrees with “You Can’t Go Home Again.” (,1). She uses imagery to try and get the audience to understand that in that era of society there was nowhere to go where an African American could go to be completely free of racism since most of those affected by it had to carry it with them. They had been called numerous things for so long that they had begun to believe it, and nowhere began to feel like home. They began to feel as if they were less than a regular non-colored human being. She Then uses imagery of a child being in a home alone to explain to the reader that the way to perceiver against the racism in the south is by staying in your home or in this case what transpires to her mind. She uses her mind as a safe haven where they are the person who escape from all the real-world problems.  Through the analyzation of Maya Angelou’s first section it is clear that she takes on the form of perseverance to appeal to her audience. Further examples can support her tactics as being successful in persuading an audience to believe in the message they are trying to get across.
In “Tobacco imagery on New Zealand television” by Rob McGee and Juanita Ketchel they argue that there is a wide array of imagery used in everyday life to insinuate that smoking Tobacco cigarettes has no effects on a person’s health. They argue that the repetitive use of cigarettes on television implies on the audience that it is okay to smoke, since their everyone else is doing it. They depict an episode of a popular television show that uses imagery to persuade the audience to try it as well seeing as it comes off natural on screen. This article further supports the effectiveness of imagery to produce a good persuasive argument. McGee, and Ketchels excerpt draws parallels with Angelou’s excerpt by both managing to persuade the reader through providing the audience with a visual image. Maya Angelou uses a more indirect use of imagery, by making the authors think about what she is saying, in contrast with the smoking ads. Despite this they both manage to win a number of people to their cause.       
Maya Angelou also manages to produce an emotional appeal to pathos through her use figurative language. Angelou states I went to the Fillmore Street 5 & Dime store. It was an acre wide shop where dreams hung on plastic stands. I had walked up and down its aisles a thousand times over. I knew its seductive magic. From the nylon slips with cardboard tits to the cosmetic counter where lipsticks and nail polish were pink and red and green and blue fruits fallen from a rainbow tree.” (,4). Through this statement Angelou uses pathos to express the inner struggle within herself. She uses the example of dreams being hung in plastic stand to express to the audience that most women go through a struggle of growing up, this heavily relates to the audience. It relates to the audience because of the feeling of growing up too early, and not yet feeling ready to enter the more mature realm of living.     
Aristotle in “Rhetoric” argues that the emotions that a person feels can greatly affect a person's thoughts or perceptions, but also their feelings. The effect of drawing on a person's feelings is very powerful, to the point of changing one's mind. The tactics used by Maya Angelou are proven to be a powerful way of producing persuasion. This is due to the relation the author is able to make with the audience through a feeling that most young women can relate to.
In her excerpt, Maya Angelou attempts to make her appeal to ethos by establishing herself as someone with good character by illustrating that despite not having the most to give she will gladly be able to support what she can. Angelou clearly makes an appeal to the audience’s ethics not only by establishing her own character, but by also denouncing sublimely that of the philanthropist. Angelou claims “Philanthropists often are represented by committees and delegations. They are disconnected from the recipients of their generosity.” (,3). Angelou’s claim to ethics is expressed by Angelou saying that there is no reason for someone to do something if they have no interest in the matter, other than for their own egotistical gain. 
The appeal to ethics could be better supported through a similar example In the article “Soccer Ball Production for Nike in Pakistan” by Karin Astrid Siegmann in her article the appeal is one that appeals to the ethical injustice of  workers. The reason it appeals to ethics is because the author exposes the truth and difficulties of a major sports corporation. She uses a comparison of what normal expected standards of work are, and compares them to the work conditions they receive in Pakistan. Siegmams appeal makes sense in that if identifies a problem that most ethical people would have a reason to get behind. Most people can get behind this for the reason that a location like Pakistan is already a lackluster place to live in comparison to the united states. She in my view attempts to achieve a feeling of pity for the country workers seeing as they have very little to begin with, and now have even less. However, the main ethical approach I think she takes on is whether one should sacrifice someone’s natural rights for their own personal gains despite the consequences. Through the explanation it becomes apparent that the two authors parallel each other in that they both discuss the wrongdoing of ethics as a way of self-improvement.
       	In the later part of the excerpt Maya Angelou uses the context, and targeted audience to try and get the readers to side with her claim that life’s biggest blessings come from some unexpected areas. Angelou also makes an appeal to the audience who in this case is directed towards woman. The author uses her story of giving birth at sixteen to show that not all that seems bad is actually bad. Angelou appeal is more directed towards women, as they are better able to connect with the difficulties of being pregnant and going through motherhood. The authors appeal is emotional since it draws on the emotions felt between a mother and a child, and what that effect in turn can bring to the woman. She argues that having a child can create a feeling of joy for the mother. Angelou’s emotional appeal is meant to establish a feeling of blessing, and joy in her audience. She clearly uses the context of her audience being a majority of women to appeal to them by appealing to their emotional sides through her own life examples to instruct the audience to live life in a grateful way. The author sees that her message can get across and positively inspire the audience to be a more grateful person who sees the best in situations, and not the worst. She further supports her use of context awareness by using a seemingly sad example where it seemed that she was destined to fail, and not graduate high school. She then turns it around into a cheerful story where she succeeds and then makes something of herself.  This draws on the audience awareness as appeal is able to connect with younger women who have been pregnant. She attempts to use her emotional appeal to get her audience to believe that teenage pregnancy is not, as  harsh as it seems. Angelou attempts to illustrate through her own example that it did not ruin her life, but contrary made it much better.
An example of that could possibly help better understand what Maya Angelou is trying to get across is found in Jan LeBlanc Wicks, Ron Warren, Ignatius Fosu and Robert H. Wicks “Dual-Modality Disclaimers, Emotional Appeals, and Production Techniques in Food Advertising Airing during Programs Rated for Children: Is There a Good Balance?” they argue that an emotional appeal is specifically used in certain instances to capture the attention of a targeted demographic. They argue that there may be an overproduction of commercials during the children’s shows. The authors identify that companies use the context of television stations to appeal to younger kids in order to influence their parents to partake in spending money on such food they see. The authors of the article also however defend corporations use of such commercials as possibly a way of getting to the parents. By getting to the parents through the children the company is actually making an appeal through the children to the parents.
Similarly,  Maya Angelou’s” Letter to my daughter’ both of these passages make very similar claims. They both appeal to a targeted audience within a certain context. Maya Angelou’s uses an emotional appeal within the context of her targeted audience which are woman. She knows that by using something as relatable as child birth she will be able to persuade the audience of her beliefs.
       	Maya Angelou through her use of ethos, pathos, context, and imagery is able to strategically place her claims within her book. In “Letter to My Daughter”. Throughout the book she makes claims that appeal to the context of the book which is to woman. This can be explained since the title is “Letter to My Daughter” yet has no daughter she uses that as symbolism. The symbol letter to my daughter is meant to signify that she is talking to all her daughter around the world. This sets the context of the book as it’s audience can now be seen as being woman. The various rhetorical devices she uses also help convey her message. This book uses a variety of emotional and ethical appeals to assert the connection with the readers through which they can easily connect. The connection can be seen as being the joy of unlikely situations. Angelous example goes hand in hand with what she is implying. Her example of receiving the best gift she could have ever gotten from what most people would treat as bad luck. The authors appeal to ethics also goes in hand with her example of how it is unethical to give money to a cause for the title it gives to your name. She argues through her claim that it is better to give what you can than to give. The use of imagery also conveys a distinct image of what it was like when the author was growing up third further helps the audience understand her point of view that has led her to illustrate the piece of literature. 

















					Works Cited
McGee, Rob, and Juanita Ketchel. “Tobacco Imagery on New Zealand Television 			2002-2004.” 	Tobacco Control, vol. 15, no. 5, 2006, pp. 412–414. JSTOR, 			JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/20748046.
Siegmann, Karin Astrid. “Soccer Ball Production for Nike in Pakistan.” Economic and Political		 Weekly, vol. 43, no. 22, 2008, pp. 57–64. JSTOR,JSTORwww.jstor.org/stable/40277521.
Wicks, Jan LeBlanc, et al. “Dual-Modality Disclaimers, Emotional Appeals, and Production 	Techniques in Food Advertising Airing during Programs Rated for Children: Is There 		a Good Balance?” Journal of Advertising, vol. 38, no. 4, 2009, pp. 93–105. JSTOR,		 JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27749662.
Angelou, Maya. “Excerpt: ‘Letter to My Daughter’ by Maya Angelou.” 23 Sept. 2008, p. 9., 	www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-	angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost.
Aristotle, and W.D Ross. Rhetoric. N/A, Oxford. Clarendon Press., 1954,www.				 books.google.com.
