
Rhetorical Analysis of “Letter to My Daughter”
Maya Angelou’s “Letter to my Daughter” offers many strategies to get her message across to the reader. But, her most powerful strategy is her choice of wording. Her manner of dialect fits directly into a fine line of attention grabbing. It doesn’t bore the reader out with vague sentences nor are the words too colorful. It’s a fine mix between realism and mannerism that really inputs images in the reader’s head once they get into the story. The correct form of speech or text in a story can help guide the audience to the end by instilling images that go along with the plot of the aforementioned story.“Letter to my Daughter” gives the reader a view into the life of a young woman who faces many instances in her life. The reader journeys with the child from a youngster to a mature young woman. 
According to the article “The Effects of Reader and Text Characteristics on Imagery Reported During and After Reading,” “... Students have varying degrees of imaginal skill, which may affect the usefulness of imagery instructions; we need to include some estimate of these skills in future studies. Text characteristics affect the imagery produced by readers…”. (Bridge et al. 18) Students vary depending on what they receive from reading a story or an article. Some are impacted greatly and some are not even affected to the minimum. In Angelou’s case, she inserts some form poetry into her work. For example, in the eighth paragraph of the story, Angelou describes home as a “...youthful region where a child is the only real living inhabitant. Parents, siblings, and neighbors, are mysterious apparitions, who come, go, and do strange unfathomable things in and around the child, the region’s only enfranchised citizen.” To me, it has a form of poetic value that really taps into my head. I develop a mental picture of the scene being described and it furthers my interest in the story. As I read this part, I carefully picked it apart and studied it word for word. To Angelou, home is the only place where a child can truly be at peace and at comfort. She describes parents, siblings, and neighbors as apparitions. Let us remember that “apparitions” can mean spirits or ghosts. She says that these apparitions do unfathomable things in and around the child. She describes the child as being “enfranchised”. Which means that the child is free. So, what does the sentence as a whole mean? Children are considered innocent minded by family and friends alike. They know not of the bad and good in the world and that’s why they vulnerable. That explains why the child is the only real inhabitant of their home. Its because of their innocence. As for siblings, neighbors, and parents, the opposite applies. They are more prone to the terrors and dangers that the world brings. The world offers money, drugs, drunkenness, violence, and profanity. When Angelou means “apparitions”, it doesn’t mean she’s talking about ghosts. She describes these people of being flawed copies of their former selves. The people she knew have gone away like ghosts, but have come back to perform terrible, unfathomable things to and around the innocent child. The child is considered free because she knows not the difference between right and wrong. There’s still a chance she could get away from it and truly be free.
What’s also easy to understand is that Angelou does not shove a lot of information in your face and expect you to understand it. In fact, that’s one of the main reasons why students tend to dismiss a story or an article as another “load of intellect” and discard it. The reader could receive too much information and not have time to slowly process it and turn it into imagery. Or maybe the reader can have too little and regard the information as unimportant or uninteresting. That’s why Angelou chose her words carefully and arranged in a specific manner to allow the reader as much focus and attention as possible. “The amount of imagery generated during reading may also be affected by the language features of the text, and by the arrangement of the text at the discourse level…”. (Bridge et al. 6) This means that imagery will be judged by the reader according to the choice of words written by the author. The reader can either generate a profound imagery which describes the scene perfectly or they can either misinterpret the scene and not fully understand it. This all depends on the sentence structure used and the types of words used by the author. 
Angelou’s choice of the words themselves also bring her story to an attention grabbing level. As I stated earlier, her word choices are neither vague nor too colorful. They really build an actual level of imagery and emotion within the reader’s head. Of the best examples of this is paragraphs 21 and 22 in “Letter to My Daughter”  in which this is stated, “My mother watched me for about two weeks. Then we had what was to become familiar as, ‘a sit down talk to.’ She said, “Maya, you disapprove of me because I am not like your grandmother. That’s true. I am not. But I am your mother and I am working some part of my anatomy off to buy you good clothes and give you well-prepared food and keep this roof over your head.” With her correct word choices, Angelou has turned this story into one that leans more on realism rather than a boring, vague tale. Apparently, I’m not the only one who thinks that word choice is important. From a journal article titled “NeuroImage” they have concluded that “-words provide a viable basis set for linguistic semantic representations, as per the text-based models, is not difficult to argue.” (Anderson et al. 12)
Of course let us not forget that Angelou inserted some form of language that would seem “off” to some readers. If you look back at paragraph 30, Angelou writes “It had to be the days of Revelations. The days John the revelator prophesied. The earth shuddered as trains thundered up and down in its black belly. Private cars, taxis, buses, surface trains, trucks, delivery vans, cement mixers, delivery carts, bicycles, and skates occupied the air with honks, toots, roars, thuds, screams, and whistles, until the very air seemed thick and lumpy like bad gravy.” Now first time readers are going find this section of the story very confusing as to why it took such a crazy turn from it’s earlier paragraphs. The audience would be perplexed as to why Angelou brought in religious ideals into her story and to why she mentioned as those vehicles producing bad air. Its very simple to understand if a reader slowed down and took the sentence apart and studied it word for word. Angelou uses Revelations and John the revelator to set a tone of worry as Revelations states that the world will end. She then begins to talk about cars and other vehicles producing bad air. Basically, Angelou stated that since all these vehicles produce this horrid air, it caused the air to look so bad that it seemed like the world was ending as stated in Revelations. See how such a simple meaning could have concocted such a confusing set of words?   As stated in “NeuroImage” “A long tradition of studies in computational linguistics and cognitive science has shown that it is possible to extract empirically effective representations of word meaning by using other words that tend to naturally co-occur with a target term as semantic features in a vector-based representation of the target term’s meaning.” (Anderson et al. 6) This means that the meaning of a sentence can be gradually known to the reader by studying and observing the word choices the author has made. 
Another thing I have to give Angelou credit for is how she divides her story into sections. She labels the sections as “Home, Philanthropy, Revelations, and Giving Birth.” It was a wise thing to do on Angelou’s part. It's like she was giving the reader a view of her life. From her childhood in Stamps to her maturity as a young woman and then falling in love and giving birth to a child. It really allows the reader to delve into the life of Angelou. It creates a connection between the reader and Angelou. I mean, some readers had to at least know what Angelou was going through during her life. She was trying to write a story that the reader will respond with “I know how that feels.” The reader was supposed to feel like the story was relatable to their own lives.  She aimed this story particularly at young women in hopes to give them an insight on what to expect in this world once they matured a bit. This can be considered a type of emotional imagery that is generated well in the story.
Angelou has inputs slight historical context in her story. This generates a certain level emotion that the reader can better understand how she and her family grew in up such an environment. The online article by Grace Fleming, “The Importance of Historical Context in Analysis and Interpretation,” offers some counsel on the importance of historical context and the imagery it generates into the mind of the reader. “In literature, a sound understanding of the historical context behind a work's creation can give us a fuller appreciation of the narrative.” The entire section under “Home” can be considered historical context as it talks about Angelou’s childhood and what her family was like.
The section under “Philanthropy” can really be confusing to some readers. It leads off from the main story to bring up the business of philanthropists and charity. However, it can be a form of imagery written in the guise of an autobiography. She describes herself as charitable compared to philanthropists who she said are “...often are represented by committees and delegations. They are disconnected from the recipients of their generosity.” But, she does give them their due credit as she also said “They give huge sums of money to support organizations which offer better health and education to the society. They are the principal patrons of the arts.” She uses imagery to expose a difference between a philanthropist and someone who is more charitable. 
Angelou’s choice of wording was precise and realistic far more than I’ve anticipated. She uses steadfast sentences and profound mannerisms to keep the story going. But, she also uses these to her advantage as well. By introducing herself as a young child she brings the reader on a little tale of her life story. She offers realistic wording and sentence structure to create the ideal speech for each character she introduces the story. With all that said, she forms a nice deal of imagery in the reader’s head so that they may better understand the life of this person. With the correct choice of words a story can grab the reader’s attention and keep them into the tale from beginning to end.














Works Cited
Anderson, Andrew James, et al. “Research Repository.” Reading Visually Embodied Meaning from the Brain: Visually Grounded Computational Models Decode Visual-Object Mental	Imagery Induced by Written Text, NeuroImage, 5 Oct. 2015, repository.essex.ac.uk/14390/.
BĂTRÂNU, Steluța. “Directory of Open Access Journals.” Cultural Intertexts, Casa Cărții	DeȘtiință, 1 Oct. 2015, doaj.org/article/6f22d9d0d6ed41a39545554295b0781e.
Fleming, Grace. “Understanding Historical Context Is Key to Analysis and	Interpretation.”ThoughtCo, 20 Aug. 2017,	www.thoughtco.com/what-is-historical-context-1857069.
 Lang, Peter J. “From Narrative Text to Emotional Imagery:The Network Model.” Wiley Online Library, Sept. 2012, onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1469-8986.2012.01437.x/epdf.
Long, Shirley A., et al. “The Effects of Reader and Text Characteristics on Imagery Reported During and After Reading.” Reading Research Quarterly, vol. 24, no. 3, 1989, pp. 353–372. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/747774.
