
EH 203-201 
Essay One

In the widely studied literature, The Canterbury Tales, Geoffrey Chaucer makes satirical references of people who are supposedly the most noble in society. One of these in particular is his tale of, the Wife of Bath, and how she plays several roles, and justifies her actions. Up until a certain time wives were supposed to play a specific role and were not expected to act any other way. It was not easy for women to generate a name or occupation for themselves other than being someone’s wife. Chaucer's creation, the Wife of Bath, is both an example of some of the worst examples of negative stereotypes about women and a proto-feminist. By creating such a character, Chaucer shows the limits women faced in defining themselves.
One of the stereotypes about women displayed in, the Wife of Bath’s, prologue is that women should only be wives. The Wife of Bath tried to justify that Solomon had several wives and women should be able to have several husbands. According to the, Wife of Bath’s Prologue, she had five husbands since the age of “twelve years old” (Chaucer, line 4). At this point in her prologue, she tries to validate that men and women should be equals in marriage. She even tries to prove that marriage after being married in the past is acceptable by explaining that biblical scholars even believe “it’s better to be wedded than to burn” (Chaucer, line 53). Throughout the first part of her prologue, The Wife of Bath sounds very proto-feminist, but when she describes the specifics of her past marriages the audience could perceive her as a user. 
In the Wife of Bath Prologue, she shares details about each of her marriages that helped her figure out her purpose as a woman, but could be comprehended as negative. She explained that at a young age she learned to use what she had to get what she wanted. She told about three of her five husbands who would do anything for her because they loved her. But she exposed a negative stereotype of women when she explained “why should I bother to please them, unless it were for my profit and pleasure?” (Chaucer, line 214).  This makes women sound like they are only wives in order to profit from men, when it is not the point she is making at all. Although she was with her husband the problem was that it seemed as though there was no mutual love, like it was forced. There might have been mutual love, but it mostly seemed like she was only playing a role. In today’s society women are negatively labeled for comments similar to the Wife of Bath’s, but it depends on the intent from the beginning of marriage. 
As for the two other husbands, they did not show their love for as similar as the first three possibly because of the age differences. She uses examples like “if I have a friend or a gossip, completely innocent, and I walk to his house or amuse myself there, you chide me like a fiend.” (Chaucer, line 45-47). Which is true because even in today’s society there is an overwhelming support for men to be open about sexual accounts, but women are supposed to be silenced. She also went into details about other stereotypes that women were afforded a lesser position. But the Pardoner and others did not agree with her point of view so in order to get them to understand her point of view she told the tale of a knight who had to find what women desire. 
The tale starts by representing a knight in a negative light, but in that negative he has a chance to prove himself. In a way, Chaucer shows how men are privileged by being given a second chance, whereas a woman would be prosecuted immediately for anything they did out of the ordinary. The knight has to find the answer to “what women most desire?” (Chaucer, line 905). While trying to find this answer the knight asks women from all over what they believe women in general desire, but he does not find a sufficient answer he feels will satisfy the Queen. Eventually he comes across and Old woman who has the answer he is looking for, but he had to make a deal with her that had unforeseen consequences in order to use her answer. The knight continues to take what women have, in this case their opinions, instead of finding the answer by changing his actions. The true lesson the knight learned came after he had to fulfill his promise to the Old woman and “he married her that morning” (Chaucer, line 1080). 
After a very dreadful day of marriage, he was offered yet another lesson to challenge whether or not he learned how to treat women. At this point, he probably felt that there was no way he could win, so he decided concede instead. There was a change in the way he thought of women, but in the end he still got what he wanted. The only lesson he learned was that women cannot be treated any kind of way. But by him getting the perfect wife, it did not justify his knowledge of how to address and interact with women. In a way this still showed women being compliant to what men believed women should be.
The Wife of Bath’s message each time she was that it seemed she and other women always played a role. The only difference between her and most women is that she recognized her position as a role and played her role in each marriage. This is possibly the reason why women and people in general feel like they cannot venture outside of the societal norms. If people felt that they could be themselves without being judged or persecuted, it probably would not be so bad to show individuality. 



















Works Cited 

Chaucer, Geoffrey . The Canterbury Tales: The Wife of Bath's Tale. Translated by Gerard       Necastro, 2007, www.umm.maine.edu/faculty/necastro/chaucer.
