Literature review-plastics and feasible alternatives
	The invention of plastic has led to innovations in almost every industry from the medical field to food distribution. Plastic, in its many forms, has a great number of uses as evidenced by its presence in virtually all developed nations’ homes and buildings. Plastic is desirable for its multifunctional qualities, and especially for its long-lasting durability.  However, its benefits are also its downfall. Because traditional plastic is so durable and long-lasting, it takes years to breakdown and when it does it releases toxic chemicals into the environment in which it lies. One-use plastics such as plastic grocery bags and water bottles are garnering a great deal of public as well as scientific attention due to their persistent and unwelcome appearance in the ocean and other natural environments. While these plastics end up in the wrong place, many argue they have value if disposed of properly and recycled. Others believe the current consumption of plastic is detrimental to society, the earth and its vulnerable inhabitants, and should therefore invest in sustainable and biodegradable alternatives to oil based plastic. However, there is also debate about the feasibility of implementing biodegradable alternatives and even their so-called eco-friendly properties.
	No one is denying that the ongoing mass consumption of plastics is a global issue. According to Xanthos and Walker, reviewers of the article “International policies to reduce plastic marine pollution from single-use plastics”, the annual plastic production rate as of 2015 was approximately 300 million tons, but about 50 percent was disposed only after a single use (Xanthos and Walker).  TED talk speaker, Mike Biddle addresses this waste in his “We can recycle plastic” presentation. He insists that plastic is a valuable resource we cannot afford to waste. While over 90 percent of recycled metals are recovered and repurposed, less than 10 percent of recycled plastic is recovered. Most of it (plastic) is incinerated or dumped in a landfill never to be used again (Biddle 03:21). Biddle stresses that plastic is even more valuable than metals such as steel because it has so many different uses in our contemporary world; plastic’s demand is much higher than that of steel and other metals. Biddle lists sorting difficulty as one of the reasons for plastic’s lack of repurposing; distinguishing between different types of plastic is not easy due to their similar “overlapping narrow range of densities and similar magnetic and electrical properties” (Biddle 04:10). However, lack of consumer responsibility is another factor why few plastics are recycled and instead end up causing havoc in the natural environment. 
Authors of “Application and societal benefits of plastic”, Anthony Andrady and Mike Neal, agree that one of the main issues with plastic is its improper disposal: “More attention and resources need to be devoted to increasing the awareness of consumers about the environmental consequences of litter, as this is the most effective solution” (Andrady and Neal). Instead of focusing on plastic’s negative impact on the environment, Andrady and Neal emphasize plastic’s essential role in world society.  The authors argue plastics are critical in the use, storage, and distribution of clean and safe drinking water. In addition to providing a means for storing water, plastic packaging in the food industry allow for a longer status of freshness ultimately contributing to less food waste (Andrady and Neal).  The use of plastics in transportation and building materials as opposed to other heavier materials such as metal produces more energy savings. Use of lighter material is easier to construct and results in less fossil fuel consumption, therefore less greenhouse gas emissions. (Andrady and Neal).  Plastic packaging also contributes to energy savings; a study conducted involving the “switch from gable-top milk cartons manufactured from a paper/aluminum/plastic composite to plastic pouches resulted in production energy savings of approximately 72 percent”(Andrady and Neal).  
While Andrady and Neal suggest the energy savings used in production of plastics in combination with their various vital functions outweigh their negative environmental impacts, many people classify plastic as a destructive material, doing the planet more harm than society good. Macro-plastics such as whole water bottles and plastic bags have been found at increasing rates within the natural environment, particularly in the oceans. While most plastic is deposited in landfills, if it is not buried properly, the plastic can resurface as debris  (Barnes). With the aid of wind and water, this debris can end up anywhere including the ocean where its marine inhabitants can become “victims of entanglement leading to starvation, suffocation, laceration, infection, and mortality” (Xanthos and Walker). The life span of plastic varies depending on the type of plastic and the environment in which it ends up, but it is estimated that it can take hundreds to thousands of years to break down (Barnes et al.). However, in the ocean and along coastlines where sunlight penetrates the water’s surface and waves cause physical abrasion, plastic can break down in as little as one year (Barnes et al.).  Prolonged exposure to UV rays contributes to the photo-degradation of the plastics into micro-plastic size, expanding the number of vulnerable organisms: “the weathering of plastic debris causes fragmentation into particles that even small invertebrates may ingest” (Jambeck). Fragmented particles of such small size are extremely difficult to remove or even locate in the vast ocean. (Xanthos and Walker). In a 2014 study, it was estimated that 5.25 trillion plastic particles are floating in the oceans (Xanthos and Walker). Some of these plastic particles consist of chemicals that once ingested can be absorbed by body tissues and cause disruption in normal physiological functioning (Barnes et al.).  Due to traditional plastics detrimental effects to marine life, people are pushing for single-use plastic alternatives.
Biodegradable alternatives to traditional plastics are appealing to many environmentalists, but some critics argue that these current biodegradables are deceptively bad for the environment. According to Friends of Earth, these “degradable bags are said to be environmentally friendly because they break down quickly into compost, but the problem is that as they crumble they release methane, which is more harmful than carbon dioxide” (Butler). Writer of UK Guardian article “Alternatives to plastic bags must be greener” reports that the production of current alternatives to plastic bags such as paper bags uses 4 times as much energy, creating 50 times more water pollution and 70 percent for air pollution (Letters). Research on the effects and viability of biodegradable plastic alternatives is limited and therefore must be studied more extensively in order to accurately judge its feasibility as an alternative.
It is clear that plastics pose a continuous threat to the natural world and wildlife, but its important uses in contemporary life are also apparent. The discrepancies lie with what do about this mismanaged resource. Some argue that the problem lies within consumer disposal responsibility, while others believe the current recycling system of plastics needs to be reimagined.  Some propose that less production of the material and investment in alternatives is the only way to solve the “plastic problem.” However, it is clear that human’s current consumption and disposal of plastic is destructive to the planet and change in one form or another is imminent.



Works Cited
Andrady, A. L., and M. A. Neal. “Applications and Societal Benefits of Plastics.” Philosophical 
	Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, vol. 364, no. 1526, 2009, pp. 
	1977–1984, rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/364/1526/1977.short#sec-5. 
	Accessed 26 September 2017.
Barnes, D. K. A., et al. “Accumulation and fragmentation of plastic debris in global	environments.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences,	vol. 364, no. 1526, 2009, pp. 1985–1998,	rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/364/1526/1985.short#sec-9. Accessed 28	September 2017.
Biddle, Mike. “We can recycle plastic: ideas worth spreading.” TED, July 2011,	https://www.ted.com/talks/mike_biddle. Accessed 1 October 2017.
Butler, Sarah. “Plastic bag alternatives may harm environment more.” Sunday Times; London,	2010. ProQuest Central, https://search-proquest	com.liblink.uncw.edu/central/docview/613228708/8EA2CC7E95CA4BDAPQ/27?acco	ntid=14606. Accessed 27 September 2017.
Jambeck, J. R., et al. “Plastic Waste Inputs from Land into the Ocean.” Science, vol. 347, no.	6223, 13 Feb. 2015, pp. 768–771,	http://science.sciencemag.org.liblink.uncw.edu/content/347/6223/768.full. Accessed 24	September 2017.
Letters. “Alternatives to plastic bags must be greener | Letters.” The Guardian, Guardian News	and Media, 5 Oct. 2015, www.theguardian.com/environment/2015/oct/05/alternatives-to	plastic-bags-must-be-greener.  Accessed September 25 2017.

Xanthos, Dirk, and Tony R. Walker. “International policies to reduce plastic marine pollution	from single-use plastics (Plastic bags and microbeads): A review.” Marine Pollution	Bulletin, vol. 118, no. 1-2, 2017, pp. 17–26,	http://www.sciencedirect.com.liblink.uncw.edu/science/article/pii/S0025326X17301650	ScienceDirect. Accessed 28 September 2018.
