The Benefits of Majoring in History
	As a history major, I’ve been told that a degree in history won’t get me anywhere in life. I constantly hear family and friends alike tell me that history is a useless subject to learn and to teach. They sometimes even inform me that I should choose wisely in my major and select something more promising for my future. Some scholars would argue that history leaves nothing to be gained once the student graduates from their college of choice. These scholars claim that history majors are underemployed, underpaid, and they do not provide a beneficial future for the individual who achieved a degree in it. In fact, teachers and professors would state that if one would major in agriculture, mathematics, or computer science then history would play little or no part into their everyday life. Well, history does in fact play a part in our daily lives and these statements that history graduates are underemployed and underpaid are mere myths. History is indeed a fruitful subject to study and it should not be considered a subject of lesser or no importance.
	Sam Dillon posted an article in 2008 titled “History Survey Stumps U.S. Teens.” It was about a History survey conducted by the organization known as Common Core, “...a nonpartisan research and advocacy organization that will press for more teaching of the liberal arts in American public schools” (Dillon, paragraph 2).
In the aforementioned survey 1,200 17-year-olds were contacted by telephone and asked to complete a survey of 33 multiple choice questions about history and literature, which were read aloud to them. The results were poor as fewer than half of the American teenagers that were contacted knew when the Civil War was fought, but they inaccurately assumed that Christopher Columbus arrived in America in 1750 not 1492 (paragraph 1). Then, it was revealed that a quarter of the aforementioned students did not correctly identify Adolf Hitler as Germany’s chancellor during World War II. They instead identified him as a munitions maker, an Austrian premier or the German Kaiser (paragraph 7). According to the survey, the easiest question was to identify the individual who gave the “I have a dream” speech, which ninety-seven percent of participants answered Martin Luther King Jr. as the correct choice (paragraph 9). This survey proves that history isn’t being taken seriously. These students should’ve been already to identify the arrival of Columbus and to clearly state who Hitler was. Some would argue that the results of the survey are irrelevant due to the fact that history itself is the subject of the past and the past should remain where it is. But, there is a lot we can learn from the past and apply it to the present.
	We are doomed to repeat history unless we learn from it. Think of how a farmer decides to grow his crop and how he or she applies various methods for the crop to grow. They have to water it correctly, make sure the sun hits it well enough and protect it from insects and the harsh weather. They learn how to do these things simply by learning from their mistakes from the past. They’ll know if they applied too much water or if they didn’t do good enough a job to get protect their crop from insects or the weather. They’ll learn from their mistakes of last season and do better the next to get a better harvest. Unbeknownst to many individuals today, we naturally assume that we do in the present is already hardwired into our minds. From the growing of crops to taking a test from school, we refuse to acknowledge how our past failures have pushed us to better ourselves and conquer any obstacles in our path. Scholars or any individual who say that history is useless and can’t be applied to any part of daily life should really reconsider how far they’ve gotten in their own life due to them not repeating history. But, before I dig into the benefits of history in business and finances, I want to touch more on the subject on the effects it has on daily lives.
	Peter N. Stearns submitted an article titled “Why Study History” which delves into the uses of history outside jobs and careers. History gives off a better understanding of morals. “History also provides a terrain for moral contemplation. Studying the stories of individuals and situations in the past allows a student of history to test his or her own moral sense, to hone it against some of the real complexities individuals have faced in difficult settings. People who have weathered adversity not just in some work of fiction, but in real, historical circumstances can provide inspiration” (Stearns, paragraph 7). Meaning, we can learn from the past. The difficult decisions that individuals faced in the past can be related to what we face today. We can take what they have done and learn from it. We are faced by moral dilemmas almost every day. We question ourselves whether or not to make a decision that would benefit us or ruin us. From the events of the past, we learn courage, diligence and perseverance and we can apply that to make better choices in our situations today. History can provide you with a sense of identity as well.
	Your personality and your actions define you but they don’t give you your identity. I mean, think about who you are and what was your background and how it made you who you are this moment. “Historical data include evidence about how families, groups, institutions and whole countries were formed and about how they have evolved while retaining cohesion. For many Americans, studying the history of one's own family is the most obvious use of history, for it provides facts about genealogy and (at a slightly more complex level) a basis for understanding how the family has interacted with larger historical change. Family identity is established and confirmed” (paragraph 8). History places within us a sense of identity. It makes you think how your family came to live where they are and what were the events that centered around your family. History provides with who you are and where you came from. Of course many scholars would argue that identity itself won’t help in the work world. But, that’s where they are incorrect.
	History doesn’t just include the study of past events, but it gives a few tools or abilities that we can apply to other fields of work. The first is the ability to assess evidence. “The study of history builds experience in dealing with and assessing various kinds of evidence—the sorts of evidence historians use in shaping the most accurate pictures of the past that they can. Learning how to interpret the statements of past political leaders—one kind of evidence—helps form the capacity to distinguish between the objective and the self-serving among statements made by present-day political leaders. This skill can also be applied to information encountered in everyday life” (paragraph 12). Meaning, it is easy to be swept away by anyone speaking from a microphone. That’s why history teaches us to search for evidence and to stand our ground against anything we don’t agree with. Then, we have the ability to assess conflicting interpretations. “Learning history means gaining some skill in sorting through diverse, often conflicting interpretations. Understanding how societies work—the central goal of historical study—is inherently imprecise, and the same certainly holds true for understanding what is going on in the present day. Learning how to identify and evaluate conflicting interpretations is an essential citizenship skill for which history, as an often-contested laboratory of human experience, provides training. This is one area in which the full benefits of historical study sometimes clash with the narrower uses of the past to construct identity” (paragraph 13). This means that there will be two sides to every confrontation or argument. To prepare ourselves for such an event, we must conduct research to determine if either side is speaking truth or of they are just being biased against one another. Then we have experience in assessing past examples of change. “Experience in assessing past examples of change is vital to understanding change in society today—it's an essential skill in what we are regularly told is our "ever-changing world." Analysis of change means developing some capacity for determining the magnitude and significance of change, for some changes are more fundamental than others. Comparing particular changes to relevant examples from the past helps students of history develop this capacity. The ability to identify the continuities that always accompany even the most dramatic changes also comes from studying history, as does the skill to determine probable causes of change” (paragraph 14). Change is a common thing in the world. But, there is a saying that states that not every change is good. By learning from history, we can carefully deduct on whether or not a certain change in our daily lives would be beneficial for us. But, let us now delve into the myths that surround majoring in history.
The first myth that comes to mind is that history majors are underemployed. Paul B. Sturtevant’s article “History Is Not A Useless Major: Fighting Myths with Data,” states otherwise. Sturtevant quotes the March 2016 issue of “Perspectives on History” which states that “The number of history BAs and BSs completed in the United States fell for the third time in four years, this time by 9.1 percent from the previous year, from 34,360 to 31,233 [in 2014].” According to the most recent data, this steep decline has continued, with only 28,157 history majors graduating in 2015 (a decline of 9.8 percent from 2014)” (Sturtevant, paragraph 2). However, the American Community Survey (ACS) gives off different statistics than the ones you just saw.  In paragraph 7 of the article, the ACS has found out that 4.6 percent of history majors between 25 and 64 years old were unemployed during the time of the survey. The national average, by comparison, was 7.7 percent. Against all holders of a college degree, however, there was a modest difference: degree-holders overall had 4.1 percent unemployment, half a percentage point lower. While history majors do have a slightly higher unemployment rate, the data show that someone interested in the field should not be deterred; the difference is very slight.
	The myth I hear the most from both friends and family alike is they state that a major in history will not give you a gainful employment. Myth are usually begin with a small hint of truth that has been wrapped up in lies and assumptions. This myth has begun with the idea that a history degree doesn’t lead directly into a profession is true only for students who expect to become professional historians or to work in a closely related occupation. Scholars naturally assume once students graduate with some form of degree in history, their immediate choice of profession would be a professional historian. That’s not true as students with a major in history can choose beyond that as their career. “The vast majority of history majors, of course, do not become professional historians; according to the ACS, only 4.5 percent of history majors become educators at a postsecondary level (that is, mostly college professors). The proportion who become museum professionals—0.5 percent of the total—is a very small slice of the overall pie as well” (paragraph 8). Nearly one in five goes into education—just over half as primary-, middle-, and high-school teachers. Another 15 percent enter management positions in business, and 11 percent go into the legal professions (most becoming lawyers). So stating that the only line of work for a history majors is to become a professional historian reveals that the proper amount of research wasn’t done. It’s important to note that nearly half of the history majors identified by the ACS went on to graduate school —a much higher percentage than the national average (37 percent) and higher than majors in English (45 percent) and the liberal arts (26 percent). This might be because law, management, and education require advanced study. It could also mean that students interested in careers that require graduate training see a history major as a springboard (paragraph 11).
	The last myth that comes to mind is that being history majors are underpaid. But, as before, we begin with a small truth being wrapped in a web of lies and assumptions. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Humanities Indicators project released an analysis of ACS data showing that those with degrees in the humanities earn less (in terms of median income) than those with degrees in engineering, healthcare, business, and the sciences. From this little bit of information, scholars, professors, and teachers assumed that meant history majors were a poor way to achieve financial value. Part of this is based more on field than on level of achievement; the work of engineers and computer programmers is better remunerated than that of, for example, elementary school teachers—even though our society demands good teachers. But history fares well in terms of compensation when compared to other humanities majors. The differences in median income among the humanities disciplines are not significant; the disparity between highest- and lowest-­paid humanities majors in the workforce is only a few thousand dollars (paragraph 11). For history majors between the ages of 25 and 64 who are neither unemployed nor out of the workforce, the median income is currently $60,000 per year. But for those in managerial positions, the median is $80,000. For those in the legal occupations, such as lawyers, the median is $100,000. But for those in education, such as teachers or professors, it is $47,000, and for those who go into community and social services, the median is $45,000. (paragraph 12). In short, it is not that history majors are underpaid. It is that the diverse range of professions that a history degree prepares them for includes several important, but vastly undervalued, public service careers. If a student only considers choosing a major if they will be earning six figures by the age of 30, then history may not be the best field. But for students who are inspired by work in which the greatest rewards may not necessarily be financial, a history major remains an excellent option.
	So hopefully, I’ve shed some light on the myths that people conjure up when it comes to majoring in history. I also hope that I may have changed the minds of some scholars or professors that would’ve had the same mindset on history. History can applied outside school and education. You can use it to better yourself and accomplish goals. You can overcome obstacles that you had trouble with before. You can even use it to identify yourself and answer the question of what is your identity. History has it’s uses in and out of the classroom and I hope I’ve proved the dissenters wrong on the matter.
Works Cited
Brooks, Katharine. “Why Major in History?” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 5 Aug. 2012, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/career-transitions/201208/why-major-in-history.
Dillon, Sam. “History Survey Stumps U.S. Teens.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 25 Feb. 2008, www.nytimes.com/2008/02/26/education/27history.html?module=ArrowsNav&contentCollection=Education&action=keypress®ion=FixedLeft&pgtype=article.
Dubcovsky, Alejandra. “To Understand Science, Study History.” The Chronicle of Higher Education, 24 Feb. 2014, www.chronicle.com/article/To-Understand-Science-Study/144947/.
Grossman, James. “History Isn't a 'Useless' Major. It Teaches Critical Thinking, Something America Needs Plenty More Of.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 30 May 2016, www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-grossman-history-major-in-decline-20160525-snap-story.html.
Schulz, Constance, et al. “Career for Students of History.” American Historical Association, American Historical Association, the National Council for Public History, and the Public History Program, University of South Carolina., 2002, www.historians.org/jobs-and-professional-development/career-resources/careers-for-students-of-history.
Stearns, Peter N. “Why Study History?” American Historical Association, 1998, www.historians.org/about-aha-and-membership/aha-history-and-archives/historical-archives/why-study-history-(1998).
Sturtevant, Paul B. “History Is Not a Useless Major: Fighting Myths with Data.” American Historical Association, Apr. 2017, www.historians.org/publications-and-directories/perspectives-on-history/april-2017/history-is-not-a-useless-major-fighting-myths-with-data.
