Facebook is using you

In today's society social media is very prevalent,it is used more frequently than if you were to send or check your email. Social media sites are being sponsored by advertising companies , because they are using our tax information , web history , and health information .The author Lori Andrews purpose for this passage is to warn readers about the dangers of data collection due to social media. Social media sites such as Facebook ,Twitter ,and MySpace are using technology that invades our privacy to retrieve information for advertising. It is said that social sites  makes money by selling ads space to companies that want us to buy their products. 
The ads on the sides of the screens are more than likely not a coincidence, they are generated from the data  collected from your internet.This is done by companies depositing software such as “cookies” or other trackers threw web browsers . It is believed that information retrieved online has been used against people in their  search for jobs, in custody hearings, and in criminal cases. Due to this lack of privacy most of our private information can be retrieved and used against you in a manner you will least expect. 
In this case i believe that it is unjust to solicit money in exchange people's personal information.There should not be a price put on ones  private life, when signing up for google , Facebook , and twitter i would not expect my personal information to exploited. Andrews point of view is very well explained throughout her passage with her use of  diction, as well as statistics.I believe there should be laws enforced against this deed , to prevent companies from profiting off of social sites we believe to be safe.If i am sending a private email it should remain private. Not gathered for a profile that is being built against me, i am expecting to feel comfortable communicating through the internet , surfing the web and browsing.
Therefore,the advertisers are in the wrong for shadowing what we have been looking up and what we have been doing on the internet. Social media has also been observing us to make money , and it is not being used in the appropriate manner.