A Somewhat Worthless College Degree Full of Academic Stress and Coping

Academic stress seems to be a factor in drug usage, suicides, and other negative consequence in college students. Academic stress is mental distress which is brought on by the frustration associated with academic failure or even unawareness to the possibility of such failure. College matriculation begins a period of transition into adulthood, which gives new freedoms and responsibilities to college students. College students have the chance to pick their only course as well as how many class and even select their professor. Thus, academic stress is not based on the college environment or on the professors. The college transition sometime consists of heavy drinking and usage of other drugs and all negative consequences that come with these behaviors. College students sometimes use drugs to cope with the stress that is brought by test and work overload. Students are told repeatedly how expensive college is and how important it is to graduate in four years or less. With this mindset college students push himself to succeed as quickly as possible. The pressure cause by academic success forces students to take some extreme measures to cope with the stress. Although outside sources heavily promote a college degree, it is not worth the stress and the negative effects that students experience. 
Stress is not always bad, it is what has keep humans alive for all these years. According to the article “Central Command Neurons of the Sympathetic Nervous System: Basis of the Fight-or-Flight Response” by Arthur S. P. Jansen, Xay Van Nguyen, Vladimir Karpitskiy, Thomas C. Mettenleiter, Arthur D. Loewy, stress can help the performance of an individual under pressure and motivate the individual to thrive in rough condition. However, when the body is constantly running in “emergency mode”, both the mind and body pay the price. The human body uses stress to respond to any kind of demand or threat. When the body senses danger it’s defenses kick into high gear and the automatic process known as the “fight-or-flight” reaction or “stress respond” is activated. The body uses the “fight-or-flight” respond to protect against any major danger. When the “fight-or-flight” is working properly is can help stay focused, energetic, and alert. However, when these “fight-or-flight” response is not working properly it is detrimental to one’s health. Beyond a certain point, stress stops being helpful and starts causing major damage to one’s health, mood, productivity, relationships, and quality of life (Jansen, 644). As one can see from the information found in this article that being under heavy is not good for the human mind nor body. Yet students are subject to stress every day they spend in college. Stress can also be found at the student’s home. As addressed early college stress are constantly being pushed to succeed both by academic staff and family members. This constant pressure forces students to go to extreme measures to cope with the stress. 
According to the article “PTSD Symptoms Mediate Academic Stress and Drinking to Cope in College Students” by Erin O. Woolman, Madelyn M. Becker, and Alicia K. Klanecky, more than 40% of college students use alcohol or other substance as a method of coping despite the negative consequence. Drinking to cope is sometime referred as drinking in efforts to reduce stress or negative emotions. Drinking to cope has been directly linked to alcohol-related consequences such as academic problems, risky behaviors, and reduced self-care (Woolman, 97). Drinking alcohol is already a major problem on campus since it plays with the ability of the brain however drinking to cope is even worst since it can lead to heavier drinking patterns. Drinking in college to relieve stress is not an adequate idea since it can have devastating effect on one's health in the future and affect the student's academic capability. Therefore, it is important to understand the factors associated with drinking to cope. Alcohol like any other drug stimulates the brain so the numbness that comes along with the high also relieves that stress. Alcohol may be a popular stress reliever drug since is easy for college students to obtain.  Alcohol on the long term can have permanent consequence such as brain damage or fatty liver disease. Going through college by living with stress and probably getting a life ending illness is not worth it. 
Another coping method that has been on the rise on college campus is the use of nonmedical use of prescription stimulants or NPS. According to the article “Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants During College: Four-Year Trends in Exposure Opportunity, Use, Motives, and Sources” by Laura M. Garnier-Dykstra, Kimberly M. Caldeira, Kathryn B. Vincent, Kevin E. O’Grady, and Amelia M. Arria, studies have estimated that approximately 10% of college students used a prescription stimulant without a legitimate prescription in the past year. During college there is an emphasis on Greek life, join a sorority or fraternity can be both a helpful experience or a risky move. Studies have shown that college student that are involved with the Greek live have a 55% to take part in the use of NPS. Those students report using prescription stimulants non-medically typically report a variety of motives for use, including to study to improve focus, concentration, and to stay awake. The most used NPS by college students is methylphenidate which is a substitute for caffeine (Garnier-Dykstra, 226).  Aside from that the dangerous drugs that are found on college campus caffeine seem to be the popular choice of NPS for college students. This could be because it is found in most energy drink and coffee which appear to be harmless in moderation. However, consuming large amount of caffeine that being from drinks or directly from the lab can have negative consequences. According to the American College Health Association’s National College Health Assessment, caffeine can cause stress, sleep disturbances, anxiety, and depression in college students. Consuming energy drinks pose serious health risk and are all threat to academic performance among college students (Pettit, 335).  Intake caffeine causes stress the main thing that college students are trying to escape by coping with it. After this one can see that there is no substance that can cope with stress in a positive manage. Most students drop out of college because they can’t figure out how to cope with the academic stress. However, some who see no good result if they drop out take it to a whole new step. 
Some college students are even forced to use some of the more dangerous drugs such as marijuana to cope with the academic stress the college creates in their lives. According to the article “Longitudinal influence of alcohol and marijuana use on academic performance in college students” by Shashwath A. Meda, Ralitza V. Gueorguieva, Brian Pittman, Farah Aslanzadeh, Howard Tennen, and Samantha Leen, Keith Hawkins, nearly 6 percent of college students smoked marijuana daily or near-daily in 2014. This is equivalent to saying that one in every 17 college students are smoking marijuana daily (Meda, 2). After all these coping methods one notice a pattern that affects most if not all the universities across the United States. One begins to see college less as an educational institute and more off a place full stress and life changes decision. In addition to all the coping with the use of drug there is research that show that college stress also causes students to commit suicide.  
According to the article “Mediating Effects of Stress, Weight-Related Issues, and Depression on Suicidality in College Students” by Sydney S. Smith, Jocelyn Smith Carter, Sabrina Karczewski, Bernadette Pivarunas, Shannon Suffoletto, and Art Munin, suicide is the leading cause of death for individuals that are between the ages of 15 and 24. Suicide is responsible for approximately 1,110 deaths a year in college campuses in the United States. Depressive symptoms, weight-related concerns and practices, and stress are all predictive of suicidality in college students. Although previous research shows that a variety of weight factors and stress have direct associations with suicidality, they are also both associated with depressive symptoms. It is possible that depressive symptoms mediate the effects of stress and weight-related concerns on suicidality. With symptoms like these students are forced to take anti-depressive to cope with the stress which made lead to overdose with medication (Smith, 2). Academic stress can very well be related to suicide. College see suicide as a solution not only to stress but to life problems. College has become such a powerful institute that not having a college degree can lead to difficulty finding a job and not believing that oneself is successful. However, college is not the only options to a better future, yet many people still put themselves through this stressful system. This system can lead to many negative consequences all to get a degree that is not worth the time and attention the students. 
	Overall, all that stress and coping the students must endure leads to a lack of sleep. As we all know lack of sleep can be detrimental to the health of our students. In the article “Self-imposed Sleep Loss, Sleepiness, Effort, and Performance” by Mindy Engle-Friedman and Suzanne Riela, it is stated that college students deprive themselves of sleep, so they satisfy their academic, occupational, and social obligations. “This sleep loss causes impairments in reaction time and vigilance as well as increases in sleepiness, fatigue, and negative mood states” (Friedman, 156).  Sleep deprivation also makes students to put less effort in any of their assignment. Sleep loss also cause college students to stress so a vicious cycle is created. A study was done by Mindy Engle-Friedman and Suzanne Riela which showed that students the amount of time students spent sleep direct affect the scores on their exams and how much they retain from a lecture (Friedman, 156-157).  As one can see college is a system the creates a cycle that is based on stress and lack of sleep. Many have seen these facts and have created programs that do a decent job of providing students with the require skill to get a job and avoid the stress of college. 
College is becoming a useless and stressful system. It can take anyone from 4 to 6 years to obtain a bachelor’s degree which cannot even guarantee a middle-class job.  College is also full of stressful class that have little to nothing to do with what one is studying for. As one can see college is nothing the best way to succeed in life anymore. Today, there is specific programs that offer a degree in months and guarantee that one will gain the skills need for the desired job. There is already a large amount programs across the United State that offer a degree in anything from nursing to electrical engineer in months. These programs are great and get an individual into the workforce quick and really for the job. However, college is still seen as the best way to attain the skills and degree most major companies look while hiring an individual. Companies that hire based on a college degree are the main reason that students at university put them to an enormous amount of stress just to please these major companies. If companies started hiring based on the skill of the individual instead of a college degree, it would like to improve the workforce. College is great for gaining useful knowledge need to perform a job, but it does a poor job on teach the hands-on skills need for most middle-class jobs. Take for example “Mr. Bridges who had no work history but had certain skills. He had built and sold stripped-down personal computers, and he had studied information technology at a community college.” (Lohr, 3) Mr. Bridges got hired by IBM with the smallest possible knowledge of computer but experiences working with computer. College is just a stressful route to success that is not meant for every American. The skill-based concept is a step in the right direction to help the large population of American get a middle-class job.  
College is only getting worst by the year and students are being to more stressful situation every time. In a recent, talk by Alice Goffman, she expresses the need to fund the United States education system more. According to her the United States, spends more money on the prison system than on our educational system (Goffman, 2015). The United State does not need to spend more money on a system such as the prison system. If we look at the money that is being spent on the prison system one can see the it is just a waste of money and could be used to improve the universities across the United States. As shown by Goffman the major spending on the prison system is simply based on arresting people with minor infraction. However, over spending on the prison system is not the only issue. In the United States the education system is severely underfunded. Many more system are funded more than the education system. Money should be spent funding programs that benefits the students of Americans and not the criminals of Americans. 
A movement that is being used to combat the problems that college brings is online education. What is meant by online education this that students have the opportunity to get a college during on their own time by taking classes on computer. Online education had proven so far to work. With over 2,000 programs seem like a probable replacement for the college system. However, these programs are great for obtaining the knowledge but they still the lack the key component that modern university lack. One of those key components is the hands-on part training that students need to succeed in their career. College has used internship or volunteering work to get their students the hands-on skills that students required for the job. Another issue that online education comes across is that students can cheat on exams. On the article “An Online Education Breakthrough? A master’s Degree for a Mere $7,000” by Carey Kevin, he states that “Test are proctored by company that locks down a student’s computer remotely and uses its camera to check for cheating.” (6) These could probably be a solution to this issue but there are still many setbacks. For one computers are only machine made by a human being which means there is many faults. The student can overwrite the computer program and make it do whatever he desires. This might seem a bit unlikely but being that one of the leading degrees that can be obtains by online education is computer engineer. The scenario becomes more likely. Online education sound like a decent alternative for modern college education but there are still setbacks. 
Academic stress brings about many coping methods that students have been forced to use to satisfy their academic obligation. Not to mentions again all the negative consequences that come with most of these coping methods. Overall, everything that college bring to the life of students made it clear that a college degree through this old college system is not worth the time and sacrifice of the students. A new system should be induction to colleges, one that does not force students to take stress classes that are pointless to what their dream job does. 





Work Cited 
Carey, Kevin. “An Online Education Breakthrough? A master’s Degree for a Mere $7,000”, The 
	Upshot, Sept. 28, 2016.
Engle-Friedman, Mindy and Suzanne Riela. "Self-Imposed Sleep Loss, Sleepiness, Effort and 
	Performance." Sleep & Hypnosis, vol. 6, no. 4, Dec. 2004, pp. 155-162.
Garnier-Dykstra, Laura M., et al. "Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants during College: 
Four-Year Trends in Exposure Opportunity, Use, Motives, and Sources." Journal of 
American College Health, vol. 60, no. 3, 01 Jan. 2012, pp. 226-234.
Jansen, Arthur S.P. and Xay Van Nguyen. "Central Command Neurons of the Sympathetic 
	Nervous System: Basis of the Fight-Or-Flight Response." Science, vol. 270, no. 5236, 27 
	Oct. 1995, p. 644.
Lohr, Steve. “A New Kind of Tech Job Emphasizes Skills, Not a College Degree” The New 	York Times, June 28, 2017. 
Meda, Shashwath A., et al. "Longitudinal Influence of Alcohol and Marijuana Use on Academic 
	Performance in College Students." Plos ONE, vol. 12, no. 3, 08 Mar. 2017, pp. 1-16.
Smith, Sydney S., et al. "Mediating Effects of Stress, Weight-Related Issues, and Depression on 
Suicidality in College Students." Journal of American College Health, vol. 63, no. 1, 01 
Jan. 2015, pp. 1-12.
Pettit, Michele L. and Kathy A. DeBarr. "Perceived Stress, Energy Drink Consumption, and 
Academic Performance among College Students." Journal of American College Health, 
vol. 59, no. 5, 01 Jan. 2011, pp. 335-341. 
Woolman, Erin O., et al. "PTSD Symptoms Mediate Academic Stress and Drinking to Cope in 
College Students." Journal of Drug Education, vol. 45, no. 2, 01 June 2015, pp. 96-112.
