Re: Position 1700010612

To: Casey Smith

I am applying for position 1700010612. I have a passion for aviation. I specifically selected the procurement agent position because the responsibilities sounded like something I would be interested in. The position goes well with my skills as I would be able to be analytical and deliberate through contract negotiations and development of supply chain strategies. I could also use my fixer strength to identify and mitigate supply chair risks. With operations management being my business school concentration, this position with Boeing would be the perfect fit for me 
I have worked in the aviation sphere for multiple summers leading up to college. Most recently, in 2016 I worked for HAECO Americas in their human relations department. 
In 2015, I worked with Cessna Citation, a Textron company, as an intern in their parts department and in customer relations. I gained beginning operations management skills learning about the process the department goes through to order, receive, and distribute parts. I learned what to do if there were mistakes and how to mitigate them, just as this internship will help me achieve. 
I selected the procurement agent track because my business concentration is operations management. I have strong analytic skills, as I thrive off of being able to gather and synthesize information. 
I am extremely adaptable in that I am always willing to fill in or change tasks as necessary. I do this weekly as a member of my sorority. I hold leadership positions, so I am a familiar face in the chapter. My peers know they can come to me if they want something done correctly and in a timely manner. I have gained countless leadership skills through my organization as well. I am comfortable working with and leading a diverse group of individuals. 
Attached is my resume for your review. Thank you for your time and consideration. I hope to be in contact shortly. 

Sincerely,
Sam Doe
University Class of 2019
Enclosures: Resume
