Honors Literature
             The Odyssey: Tone 	
The Odyssey by Homer tells the story of the once great hero, Odysseus, and his post-war journey to get back home. Homer writes many times of Odysseus reconnecting with lots of old friends and reminiscing on previous battles and encounters. Books nine through twelve are all flashbacks told by Odysseus to the Phoenicians about his wanderings throughout the lands. Homer wants the readers to reminiscence on the fact that Odysseus has went through a time of suffering and loss. In book four, lines 106-110 Menelaus says,” no one of the Achaians labored as much as Odysseus labored and achieved, and for him the end was grief for him, and for me a sorrow that is never forgotten for his sake, how he is gone so long, and we knew nothing of whether he is alive or dead.” Homer is showing us that Odysseus doesn’t even get to have a good excuse for being gone for so long. Odysseus might have a hard time coming back because he has been away for his family for so long and he might get embarrassed for his reason being gone. His wife has many people in her house competing for her love. When Odysseus returns he fights and kills the men and wins his wife’s love back.  These things give the book a serious tone. 
 In book nine, Odysseus has a flashback in which he reminisces back on the times he was sailing and when he docked on land in lines 544-551. He says,” We beached the ships and unloaded the Cyclops’ sheep, Which I divided up fairly as I could among all hands. The veterans gave me the great ram, and sacrificed it on the shore of the sea to Zeus in the dark clouds, who rule over all. I burnt all of the thigh pieces, but the god did not accept my sacrifice, brooding over how to destroy all my benched ships and trusty crews.” The book is written post Trojan War. The readers get a feeling of how much the war meant to everyone involved and how big of an impact it made on everyone. It tore apart families and gave off feelings of hostility and violence. Homer is portraying the tone of nostalgia and reminiscence to the readers by referring to these things. 
Even though The Odyssey has a very serious and nostalgic tone, Homer still provides with small moments of comic relief.  For example, when Odysseus gets back from his journey, his dog lowers his ears in recognition because of his old age. Although the moment is sad, one could argue that Homer added it into the story strictly to put a smile on the readers face. Another example of the comedy is. Another moment of comic relief comes in book twenty-one when Circ turns Odysseus’s men into pigs. He uses this to lighten the mood and get away from the grave tone that most of the epic has. There are not many examples of humor in The Odyssey but the lighthearted quotes are used sparingly to keep the serious tone still in the book. All of the comic relief contrasts well with the serious tone and breaks the tension when the readers need it most.  












Homer, and Robert Fitzgerald. The Odyssey. New York: W W Norton Company, 2012. Print.
