Running head: ResponSIBILITY OR sENIORTIY?	1
ResponSIBILITY OR sENIORTIY?	7




Abstract
The following prospectus will describe the type of research that is necessary to conduct as well as the potential that it conveys. Within the next upcoming years, a majority of the workforce will be comprised of upper-level employees. The equal compensation rate for most positions are minuscule. This prospectus will also state the initial answer towards how employees should be compensated. Any research gaps and rationale will be discussed and explained why it is important to understand. Finally, a description of the method and timeline that will be used to prove if the stated thesis statement is correct. The method section will include what qualifies an individual to be a part of a discourse community as well as how the community will be researched. For this research’s purposes, the term “newly-hired” will referred to individuals who have been employed from a minimum of two years, but no more than five.
Keywords:  Prospectus, Compensation, Rationale, Method, Discourse Community

Promotions are generally associated with the duration of employment with the company, consequently, compensation typically follows. However, tenured workers occasionally tend to show a decline in their work ethic over that span of time. Newly-hired employees who are entering the field must claim their position and employer’s confidence, thus tend to work much harder. This forms the question “Should employees be compensated based on how much they are responsible for, or by how long they have been employed?”. An initial level of confidence must first be established, but newly-employed workers deserve equal opportunity. Newly-hired employees who are responsible for and work for multiple departments deserve higher compensation than tenured employees who lack diversity and creativity within a single job position. Time spent with an employer should only matter if additional training and responsibly is accrued by the worker. 
Rationale
This topic is relevant to all of today’s workforce. It will pose as an incentive to newer employees to work harder and receive promotions, and it will act as a cautionary warning to those who are tenured and have begun to slack and gain a sense of invincibility. Work output and quality will increase significantly, which will better company’s actions and, possibly, increase profits. The research is also feasible and interesting. Underpaid employees will get to see their true value and potential within the workplace in comparison to their current value. Followers will also be able decide if tenure truly means anything, or if it should at all. Some pupils will not complete their higher level of education, because they do not see a worthy potential once they reach their first job. Other individuals, including working college students, are newly-employed and work in an extremely efficient manner, but are still undercompensated in comparison to their peers. For example, a part-time employee who has been employed at a local grocery store for four years and works efficiently in multiple departments (i.e. meat, produce, and register) is paid less than a fellow part-time employee who has been employed for ten years and performs satisfactory work in the service desk only.
Research Gap
A lack of research has been completed concerning the compensation that an employee receives regarding their work ethic. Ng and Feldman (2008) conducted research that did not show age to factor into basic tasks, but did find it to effect negatively affect training ability. Bălaş-Timar (n.d.) studied a group of employees and found that from the age of 25 to 35, work ethic and progress slowly declined. Only then did some employees aged 35 or older was there a sign of positive progress. The work of Kubeck, Delp, Haslett, and McDaniel (1996) was confirmed by that of Ng and Feldman (2008). Age was only seen as a positive effect when completing the basic tasks and the time it takes to complete them. However, the time it took to reach mastery level in a new field was significantly worse. Kubeck, Delp, Haslett, and McDaniel (1996) also stated that moderators are not included as much as they should in other research projects. Greenberg (1988) researched how rewards, in the form of office upgrades or downgrades, can affect the work of employees. It was found that after the first two weeks in a newer or older office, work outcome had almost returned to normal in comparison to the control group. This showed that environment and some rewards do not factor heavily on overall outcome (Greenberg, 1988).
A current controversy with many newly-graduated college students is finding a job position that does not require a certain amount of years of experience. Many basic level positions that could be filled by workers with potentially new ideas, require five or more years of experience. This could potentially be due to the flooding of over-experienced workers, who cannot train properly for the next level, in that position. Referring to age negatively effecting training abilities, younger employees could be encouraged to grow as a worker early in their career. 
The issue of minimum wage is also important. In Pennsylvania, the current minimal hourly wage is $7.25. Younger individuals that are independent and have been recently hired by a company to labor in multiple positions, will at times be compensated less than an employee that receives monthly social security checks and only works in a single field.
Overall, there has been a lack of research based on the amounts that workers are compensated. Much of the current studies focus on age and its impacts. There is no research on what induces the decisions on compensation and what affects them.
Method
The method that will be conducted will be in an interview-style. Questions such as “How long have you been employed?”, “How many skills and departments have you learned within the company?”, and “How many raises have you received based on skills learned as compared to raises received based off time spent with the employer?” will be asked to the members of the discourse community. The discourse community will comprise of employees at a local Giant Eagle franchise who have the same goals and leadership structures. The community will be separated into two groups: those who have been employed two to five years, and those who have been employed more than ten years. Each employee must be assigned to at least two departments. The information that is gathered will be compiled and categorized into whether it better supports compensation based on responsibility or seniority. Different departments will be viewed with different levels of difficulty, so the responses based on certain departments will be valid only if the employee is experienced in the position they are discussing. 
Timeline
This research proposal itself is due on October 16, 2017. It is the beginning stage in the research itself; it is comprised of a basic compilation of groundwork research and presents any current gaps. The week following the proposal deadline, the questions that will be presented to the employees will be created after basic observations. The following two weeks will be the start of the interviews of the discourse community. Then, the week prior to the due date for the submission of draft for comment (November 10, 2017), the interviews will be translated and examined in a rough draft. Once the draft is evaluated for consistency, integrity, clarity, and basic grammar structure, the draft will be edited for the following two weeks until November 24, 2017. After editing, but prior to the submission of the final draft to receive a grade, all final checks for plagiarism, correct APA formatting, and any other final changes will be made. The exact date for final submission was not specified by the instructor. However, the research paper should be completed by early December 2017 prior to last week of the fall semester of 2017.
References
Bălaş-Timar, D. (n.d.). The dynamic relationship between aging and job performance – A case study. Retrieved October 08, 2017, from <http://www.uav.ro/jour/index.php/app/article/view/416/444>.
Greenberg, J. (1988). Equity and workplace status: A field experiment. Journal of Applied Psychology, 73(4), 606-613.
Kubeck, J. E., Delp, N. D., Haslett, T. K., & McDaniel, M. A. (1996). Does job-related training performance decline with age? [Abstract]. Psychology and Aging, 11(1), 92-107.
McEvoy, G. M., & Cascio, W. (1989). Cumulative evidence of the relationship between employee age and job performance. Journal of Applied Psychology. 74. 11-17. 10.1037/0021-9010.74.1.11.
Ng, T. W.H., & Feldman, D.C. (2008). "The relationship of age to ten dimensions of job performance." Journal of Applied Psychology 93.2, 392-423.
