Love: A Four Letter Word 
	“The world as I see it is a remarkable place” (Mraz).  This is the first line in Jason Mraz’s song “The World As I See It” on his fourth studio album, Love Is a Four Letter Word.  The title of the album briefly touches on defining the word love, and throughout writing the songs on the album, Jason Mraz delves into filling out the definition.  Some of the love Mraz sings about includes: love for a grandfather, parents’ love for their child, self love, and romantic love.  Music has the power to influence our thoughts and emotions, and Mraz uses his artistic gifts, pathos, and analogies to write songs about love and acceptance.  
	Throughout history, there has been segregation and hate for people who are “different” than the social norm.  Mraz uses pathos in the song “The World As I See It” to persuade his listeners that living on Earth in harmony is a better option than hate.  Mraz refers to the world as a house and to the people living in it together as a family.  One of the lines that is repeated throughout the song is “it’s not hard for me to love you” which uses pathos to evoke the feeling of guilt out of people who have ever looked down on someone because of superficial matters (Mraz).  This line also speaks to millions of people who don’t feel like they are worthy of being loved because his word choice encourages people to accept their differences and love themselves.
	One of my favorite parts of this song is the last bridge where Mraz uses analogies to strengthen his argument. He first says, “you are the mountain; you are the rock” (Mraz).  Rocks are small bits of earth found everywhere, but when they work together they can build an entire mountain. Mountains stand as a mighty force of nature that cannot be pushed around.  When Mraz compares the people of the earth to both the mountain and the rock, it shows that when people are able to set aside their differences and form together in peace and harmony, great things can be accomplished.  The second analogy “you are the eagle; you are the lark” is actually based off of a book written by Bernadette Brady (Mraz).  To summarize the allegory in the book, the lark wanted to sing for the Gods, but could not fly high enough; the eagle was capable of flying high enough to reach the gods but was embarrassed of his own voice.  In the book, the eagle carries the lark to the heavens and as a team, they are able to be admired by the Gods.  Mraz says that the world is full of both types of personalities, some gifted strength and others sensibility, and by bringing together these gifts we can reach greater heights.  Analogies are strong devices in arguments because they offer a different perspective and way of describing 
	Jason Mraz wrote Love Is a Four Letter Word as a reflection on all that he has learned about love throughout his life.  Music can be a great weapon against hopelessness and sadness, and Jason’s positivity radiates through each song to bring listeners courage to change the perspective they have on life.  Mraz acknowledges that sometimes people forget their own greatness and his songs reach listeners all over the world to inspire them to be the change they wish to see.  In the end, Jason Mraz encourages everyone to take hold of all the positive opportunities life will give because “you are the world and the world is yours” (Mraz).
Works Cited
Mraz, Jason. “The World As I See It.” Love Is a Four Letter Word. Atlantic Records, 2012, ITunes.
Brady, Bernadette. Predictive Astrology: The Eagle and the Lark. S. Weiser, 1999.
