Subject: Community Service with the Literacy Council Reflection

Introduction
I volunteered with the Literacy Center. I found this organization at the Univeristy volunteer fair earlier in the year. They had a handout that listed a little bit about the organization and information on the various volunteer opportunities they had available. As glamourous as it, the “bulk mailing” job caught my eye. I enjoy volunteering, especially when it’s something like bulk mailing that most people don’t want to do. I like doing it because it doesn’t take much brain power, but im being very helpful. I reached out to their volunteer coordinator and I was signed up to help out.
What is the Literacy Council (LC) ?
The literacy center’s mission is “To provide individualized literacy services so that adults and their families in the Any region can meet their goals and develop their potential.” They offer various services to members of the community such as 1 on 1 tutoring, small classes (for building block subjects), and volunteer opportunities. The LC has a small campus near the hospital. It includes two buildings that have offices, classrooms, and a library. The center came about through the Anytown Baptist Association in 1970. The group grew and officially because the Literacy Council in 1985 as a nonprofit. In this time, the center has been staffed by over 2,000 volunteers and aided 3,500 members of our community on their journey in education. 
What I did at the LC
During my time at LC, I assisted with newsletter mailing and started cataloguing their library. My job with the newsletters included folding the newsletter together and sealing it, as well as addressing them. These newsletters are mailed out quarterly to all volunteers and benefactors of the council. My job on the library project was to catalogue all of the books in the library by a few categories. I feel like my work here is valuable even though im not directly helping a student. Because of this, I will continue to volunteer my time with this organization.
Interactions at the LC
While I volunteered, I heard various learning sessions going on, where teens and adults were reading or working on math problems with their tutor. I was able to meet a few key players in the organization, such as volunteer coordinator Sam Doeand LC Executive Director Sam Doe. I was able to talk to her about BUS 292 and how it will make the students more effective business leaders and leaders in their community. 
Reflection of the LC
I had an overall great experience volunteering at the Literacy Center. I will continue to help this organization because the staff is always so friendly and I really believe in what the organization is doing. Literacy can help combat so many problems within communities and it is rewarding to be surrounded by people who want to better themselves with education. On the first day of class when we received this assignment, I didn’t feel great about it. It just felt like one more thing I had to do. However, the assignment taught me that volunteering is so important individually and for your community. After completing the assignment, I realized volunteering with an organization you believe in is rewarding and becomes less of a chore. I want to take this experience with me beyond college and make sure I continue my involvement with my community wherever I end up.
