Maturing
Kambili Achike was raised in a very strict environment which caused her to be isolated and miss out on things that other children her age were experiencing. While spending time with her Aunty Infeoma, Kambili’s mindset started to change. How did Kambili’s surroundings mentally change her and the way she viewed life? She went from not being able to relate to others, to conforming to a new way of life, and making her own decisions. 	
When Kambili was going to school in Enugu, she had a very hard time making friends. The other girls in her class often viewed her as being an outcast. While attempted to hold a conversation with one of her classmates Kambili says, “I didn’t know what else to say, but I wanted Ezinne to know that I appreciated that she was always nice to me even though I was awkward and tongue-tied” (Adichie 49). She was over-sheltered by her father which caused her to lack certain social skills. Three of the major components of socialization include family, school, and peers (Perrino). The family is known as the primary agent of socialization because a child first learns the values and what is considered important from their family (Perrino). Kambili’s father made sure Kambili and her brotherJaja understood the importance of education, even if it meant imposing harsh punishments on them. Since Kambili was influenced and socialized heavily by her father, she could not easily socialize with her peers at school. Socialization plays a pivotal role in children’s lives and since Kambili was really only influenced by her family she had a hard time connecting with her peers. 
Compared to how Kambili lived in Enugu, life in Nnuska was very different. Instead of having to constantly follow a schedule, Kambili was encouraged to go out and explore. In Enugu, Kambili and Jaja were not obligated to do chores but it was required in Nnuska. Instead of just praying, Aunty Ifeoma’s family sang religious songs. This was very strange to Kambili at first because her father had shunned singing in their household. Papa Eugene would constantly criticize Papa Nnukwu solely because of his religion. Before going to visit their grandfather, Papa Eugene told Kambili and Jaja, “’I don’t like to send you to the home of a heathen, but God will protect you”’ (Adichie 62). While spending more time with Papa Nnukwu, Kambili started to realize that he was no different from herself. She had become accustomed to life in Nnuskaand felt more at home there than she did in Enugu. When she had to return to Enugu, she started to hate it there and would ache to be back in Nnuska. 
After spending so much time in Nnuska, Kambili began to think independently. She developed a better relationship with her cousin Amaka and formed new friendships that helped encourage this change. After Papa Eugene’s death, Kambilistarted to make her own decisions. She picked a new church to go to in Enugu, wrote checks to the Missionary Fathers, and even visited Aunty Ifeoma’s old house in Nnuska. While thinking about her recent choicesshe started to ponder, “I no longer wonder if I have a right to love Father Amadi; I simply go ahead and love him” (Adichie 303). She did these things most of the time without thinking twice about them. With her father now deceased, she had no one to be afraid of or fear. 
KambiliAchike’s environment and how it changed played a crucial role in her maturity. Once she was put into a place that was abstract and unfamiliar to life in Enugu, she adapted to it. Instead of living the life her father intended for her, Kambili later built her own identity and stayed true to herself. 

















Works Cited 
Adichie, ChimamandaNgozi. Purple Hibiscus. Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2003
Perrino, Ralph G. The Socialization Process and Its Impact on Children and Learning. 1 Jan. 	2000.
