Maya’s Life Experience
	Maya, Angelou use of rhetorical devices in her article, “Letters to my Daughter” which drives her story from the beginning to the end. Angelou is writing a letter to a daughter she never had and describing events that help her shape who she is today. Angelou opens up her excerpt describing what home means to her and how home made who she is today. In the Philanthropy section, Angelou say’s an act of kindness can be a charitable gift which can change someone life (Signature). Maya Angelou then goes to say how her unexpected pregnancy taught her that things don’t always go as plan (Signature). Maya giving birth to her son allowed her to grow up into the women she is today, “The birth of my son caused me to develop enough courage to invent my life” (Signature).  According to Kirkus review on Angelou excerpt, “Letter to my daughter,” he believes the article is about life in general (Signature). Throughout the article Maya describes what it’s like growing up from a young child to an adult. She makes it clear what Home, Philanthropy, and Revelation mean to her which are important words that describes her experience growing as an African American kid to an African American mom. Nancy Ives who also wrote a review on Maya’ excerpt suggest that it’s about African American Culture,
“She emphasizes the need for cultural tolerance and doesn't hesitate to reveal her own cultural missteps--e.g., in Morocco, mistaking raisins in her coffee for cockroaches and walking on the tablecloth in Senegal” (Ives 1). Nancy believes that the article is about her experience as an African American in the world (Ives 1). Both article statements are true but I feel Maya Angelou article is about her cultural experience as an African American mom. She use ethos, pathos, tone, and figurative language to tell her audience what it’s like growing up in her culture. 
	Maya tone is very friendly, poetic, and is written in chronological order based of her life as a kid and becoming a young adult. According to Wheaton.edu article, “Style, Diction, Tone, and voice” suggest that style is how something is written rather than the meaning. In Maya opens up her article by sharing we’re she was from.
“I was born in St. Louis, Missouri, but from the age of three I grew up in Stamps, Arkansas, with my paternal grandmother, Annie Henderson, and my father’s brother, Uncle Willie, and my only sibling, my brother, Bailey” (Signature).
The tone is very calm and you can tell the writer is putting her heart in her her writing. The tone sets the mood of the story which keeps your audience attention. Maya’s target audience is mothers and daughters of all ethnicity, shape, and size (BookTV). Maya tone throughout the article is emotional and reads like a conversation. She wrote the article in 1st person, “I am convinced that most people do not grow up. We find parking spaces and honor our credit cards. We marry and dare to have children and call that growing up. I think what we do is mostly grow old. We carry accumulation of years in our bodies and on our faces, but generally our real selves, the children inside, are still innocent and shy as magnolias” (Signature). This allows her to have a personal connection, “My real growing up world, in Stamps, was a continual struggle against a condition of surrender. Surrender first to the grown up human beings who I saw every day, all black and all very, very large. Then submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people, who I saw rarely” (Signature). Maya uses 1st person words like “My” and “I” through her article which allows her audience to feel as if she was talking directly to them. Maya believe her article is speaking to a larger Audience which are mothers and daughters. 
	Maya tone definitely changes in the last two sections of the Excerpt to show how exciting womanhood and motherhood is. The sentences become more complex which describes how emotional she is when describing what it like to become a mom, “It had to be the days of Revelations. The days John the revelator prophesied. The earth shuddered as trains thundered up and down in its black belly. Private cars, taxis, buses, surface trains, trucks, delivery vans, cement mixers, delivery carts, bicycles, and skates occupied the air with honks, toots, roars, thuds, screams, and whistles, until the very air seemed thick and lumpy like bad gravy” (Signature). Her tone in the last three sections is exciting and slightly scared. When she talks about meeting with a boy she had sex with she seemed excited because she believes it would transform her into a woman, “That was the city, when I was sixteen and brand-new like daybreak” (Signature). Maya choice use of simile allows us to relate to how she is feeling, it seems as if she was excited.    
Mays uses colorful words that depicts how she feels and describing what her environment is like. I definitely feel that she plays with diction, the use of words. When Maya describes what home means to a child she uses verbs to describe a particular environment, 
“Geography, as such, has little meaning to the child observer. If one grows up in the Southwest, the desert and open skies are natural. New York, with the elevators and subway rumble and millions of people, and Southeast Florida with its palm trees and sun and beaches are to the children of those regions, the ways the outer world are, has been, and will always be. Since the child cannot control that environment, she has to find her own place, a region where only she lives and no one else can enter” (Signature). Maya uses the verb rumble to describe what it’s like living in New York. In the philanthropy section Angelou uses an adjective to describe how words can be an act of kindness, “Fine, if my excess is tangible, money or goods, and fine if not, for I learned that to be charitable with gestures and words can bring enormous joy and repair injured feelings” (Signature). Angelou use of diction allows her audience to understand how giving is important in her culture. Overall Angelou word choice throughout the excerpt allowed her to convey emotions through important life leasing that may help other women.

	Maya uses of pathos allows her to create emotional connection between her and her audience. Pathos is an emotional appeal. Maya uses pathos through her story by telling her audience what she believes “Home” means to her. In the sixth paragraph Maya evokes emotion on her audience by telling us that blacks people were called by any name, “Poor white children had the license to address lauded and older blacks by their first names or by any names they could create” (Signature). Even though Maya doesn’t include adjectives to describe her reaction to the situation, she allows us to create our emotions on how bad African Americans are treated. Laura Carroll a scholarly author says pathos are used for personal stories, “These stories, which are often heart-wrenching, use emotion to persuade you—also called pathos” (Carroll 47). Moving down to the seventh paragraph she bombard us with how she feels about home. Maya believes you can never leave home, “I believe that one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of one's eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe” (Signature). Maya uses the nouns to comment on humans are forever attached to their home. She trying to get us to appreciate our home which allows us to feel a certain way whether it's happy, sad, or mad. 
	Maya uses Ethos in the Philanthropy Section by describing what “Philanthropy” means and where it came from. Maya purpose is tell her audience she is aware of what Philanthropist is so she can credibility, “ Ethos is concerned with the character of the speaker, or in the case of legends, the speaker and the purported legend source” (Oring 130). This allows her to define what it means to be “Charitable”, “I am not a member of that gathering. Rather I like to think of myself as charitable. The charitable say in effect, "I seem to have more than I need and you seem to have less than you need…” (Signature). Maya wants her readers to know “Charitable” people give emotional support (Signature). Maya wants her audience to know a kind word or moral support can make someone happy. Theses characteristics was picked up from her mother and paternal grandmother. 
Towards the end of the Excerpt of Maya’s, “Letter To My Daughter” she use Figurative Language to evoke emotion on how it’s like to become a mother. At the end of the excerpt, Maya speaks on motherhood. Maya use metaphors to describe a feeling to her audience, “The sound of him walking away was not nearly as loud as the sound of my heart racing” (Signature). Similes allows a writer to go behind words and express emotion, “Secondly, they can function as cognitive tools for thought in that they enable us to think of the world in novel, alternative ways” (Fadaee 4).Maya uses simile to describe how tiredness off her mom after helping her in the delivery rom, “My dad said when she returned home, she was so tired, she looked as if she had given birth to quintuplets” (Signature).
	It is clear that each rhetorical device served as a purpose of creating a sensation of emotion or describing the environment she in. I feel that Maya uses many rhetorical strategies but the ones listed throughout the essay are the one that stand out the most. Maya purpose is to provide her life experience to all types of women around the world. Each segment in the excerpt of Maya Angelou, “Letter to my daughter” provides extraordinary content of her life experience as an African American entering “Motherhood.” I’m sure her story will touch many women around the world. Maya use ethos and pathos to go beyond words and explain her emotional feeling about some life events to her readers. Her tone keeps her audience attached to her life story and really engages the reader by providing relatable information.  Also Maya use of figurative language allows her readers to take multiple meanings out of her excerpt. I feel maya understand the powe of word choice and uses her words wisely to create an image in her reader mind or to create a felling. Maya use ethos, pathos, tone, and figurative language to creates meaningful experience as a women in society during her time period.
































Works Cited

Ives, Nancy R. "Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter." Library Journal, 1 Nov. 2008, p.
64. Literature Resource
Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=csufresno&v=2.1&id=GAL
E%7CAE188898255&it=r. Accessed 13 Sept. 2017.

"Angelou, Maya: LETTER TO MY DAUGHTER." Kirkus Reviews, 1 Sept.
2008. Literature Resource
Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=csufresno&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA184141729&it=r. Accessed 13 Sept. 2017.

BookTV. “Book TV: Maya Angelou "Letter to my Daughter".” YouTube, YouTube, 12 Nov.
2008, m.youtube.com/watch?v=8hg4oT9ik18. Accessed 16 Sept. 2017.

Carroll, Laura Bolin. "Backpacks vs. Briefcases: Steps toward Rhetorical Analysis."
writingspaces 1 (2010): 45-57


College, Wheaton. “Style, Diction, Tone, and Voice.” Wheaton College,
www.wheaton.edu/academics/services/writing-center/writing-resources/style-diction-tone
-and-voice/. Accessed 16 Sept. 2017.

Fadaee, Elaheh. "Symbols, metaphors and similes in literature: A case study of 
Animal Farm."
International Journal of English and Literature 2.2 (2010)


Ives, Nancy R. "Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter." Library Journal, 1 Nov. 2008, p.
64. Literature Resource
Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=csufresno&v=2.1&id=GAL
E%7CAE188898255&it=r. Accessed 13 Sept. 2017


Oring, Elliott. "Legendry and the Rhetoric of Truth." Journal of American Folklore, vol. 121, no.
480, 2008, pp.
127-166. EBSCOhost,
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=mzh&AN=2008970379&site=ehost-li
ve.

Signature. “Excerpt: “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou.” Signature,
http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-
by-maya-angelou
/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accesed 17 Sept. 2017.
