The Sad Truth
	America is viewed by many as the land of opportunity and the place where people can easily reach their goals if they apply themselves accordingly. Unfortunately this is not the case today and in fact many are struggling to make it in America’s current economy. In America the poor will never be able to reach the American dream because the rich use their wealth to manipulate anything around them, propose legislation that harms the poor, and makes it almost impossible for the lower class to get remotely close to attaining their goals.
	The large inequality gap between the rich and the poor gives the wealthy power to control and buy their way into anything they can get themselves into. Most people at the top, including the top one percent “invest in policies that are favorable to them” (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty). Jack Abramoff was a well known lobbyist who used his wealth to bribe many public officials (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty). In the film he stated that, “money is used to buy results” (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty). The Kock brothers gave millions of dollars to colleges and many political candidates so they could help push their unethical ideas. When money is used as a means of getting laws passed, the needs of the lower class Americans are not considered.  These types of cruel acts help lead to a government system filled with corrupt law makers and unjust policies being put into place that benefit only the wealthy.  
	Many politicians have been supporting legislation that would help continue to build their wealth and take more money away from the poor working class. The payroll tax law specifically affects the poor working class and small businesses (Rowe and Cobb). Payroll taxes are taken directly from a worker’s salary and from small businesses that are simply trying to create more jobs. Instead of trying to help relieve the burden from the working class, many politicians are looking for ways to extend and expand the payroll tax system (Rowe and Cobb). Compared to the poor, the wealthy are paying very little to none when it comes to taxes and according to the film, “some of the world’s most profitable companies are paying little to no taxes at all” (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty). Paul Ryan also proposed legislation that would “cut the food stamp program by one hundred and thirty four billion dollars over the next ten years” (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty).  Instead of trying to help those who really need it, it seems as though politicians are doing all they can to keep the working class people down.  
	Now in America, a higher education is almost always needed to be successful within society. People can “quadruple their chances of making it to the top” with a college degree (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty?). For many Americans a college degree is not accessible because of the rising cost of education. Over the past twenty years, the cost of higher education has increased by more than one hundred percent (“Higher education is needed, at any cost”). This makes it almost impossible for the working class people to further their education. The film explains how with only a high school diploma “it is harder than ever to get a job” (Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty?). Without work people are forced to depend solely on government assistance programs that are becoming increasingly unreliable. 
	Some believe that the American dream is still available to anyone despite how awful their circumstances might be. They also feel as though everyone on this earth is born with equal opportunities. They simply believe that through hard work and dedication, the American dream can still be achieved by those who are at the bottom. They assume that if the working class apply themselves, they do not need help or support from anyone else. 
	However these views are misconceptions. When a person is born into a low income family and raised in an unstable environment there is merely no chance of them reaching their goals (“Saving the American Dream: It’s not just about the people at the top”). In fact, those who are born in poverty are less likely to attend college, get good jobs, and are bound to make less money compared to those who are born into wealth (“Saving the American Dream: It’s not just about the people at the top”). People who are at the bottom are held back significantly and are not given half of the opportunities that those who are at the top receive. No matter how hard a person at the bottom of the spectrum works to get to the top, the odds are always going to be against them. 
	The large inequality gap between the rich and the poor causes the rich to always have the upper hand. They are content with how they are operating because they believe that what they are doing is not significant enough to affect the lower class. Unfortunately, since this is the case, the lower class will never be able to reach their full potential regardless of how much work they put in. 



Works Cited
“Higher education is needed, at any cost.” USA Today, 2016
Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty? Dir. Alex Gibney. PBS, 	2012. Film.
Rowe, Jonathan and Cobb, Clifford. “The Worst Tax: How Payroll Taxes Have Hurt America’s 	Working Class.” Washington Monthly, no. 7, 1997, p.17. 
Wax, Amy L. “Saving the American Dream: It’s not just about the people at the top.” 	Commentary, vol. 144, no. 4, Nov. 2017
