Religion in Purple Hibiscus
	Kambili and her older brother Jaja are raised in a Catholic home, with their father and mother in Enugu, Nigeria. Their father Eugene is basically a celebrity in Nigeria because all he does for the church and the people. With a father being very religious, anything you do that does not meet his standards or religious standards there are consequences. Religion is the belief in and worship of a superhuman controlling power, like God or gods.  The top 5 religions in the United States are Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, and Hinduism. Religion plays a big role in individuals lives because it can break up relationships, belief systems differ, and it is changeable.
	Religion can break up relationships. In the book, Eugene was raised in a Pagan family but, he ended up resenting Papa Nnukwu (his father) because he praised the Gods, instead of taking him to school. Since then Eugene does not speak to his father because of his religion and when the kids visit their grandfather, they only can stay for 15 minutes. Aunty Ifeoma is Eugene’s sister but they do not have a great relationship, one reason is because of the way Eugene treats their father. The second reason is that Eugene will give Aunty Ifeoma anything she needs if she does what he says, in the book Eugene wanted her to join his church, send her daughter to convent school, and to stop wearing make-up. Since Eugene is a traditionalist in Catholicism and has a very structured household, he makes sure his family is doing everything for God; so, if his wife or kids do something he does not like or is not Godly, they will be punished. This concept relates to different religions around the world. For example, people in the LGBT community have come out to their families about their sexuality, and their family has disowned them because that is a “sin” in their religion. Even though it is a sin in some religions, most families accept their children for who they are, because they love them and will not let it affect their relationship. 
	Belief systems differ. In the book, when Kambili and Jaja went to Aunty Ifeoma house in Nssuka, they noticed that they do things differently in her house. There are a lot of differences between each household. At their house Eugene says a long prayer before each meal, but at Aunty Ifeoma house she only says a few words. Also, Eugene does not believe you should associate yourself with others of a different religion, since he does not speak to his own father. Every time when the kids were around Papa Nnukwu, they feared what would Eugene do if he found out they were around him.  In America, majority of Christians were raised in a church, so they went every Sunday because that was what you were supposed to do. Nowadays people do not go to church every Sunday like when they were growing up because someone could be in church every Sunday but during the week they could be doing everything that God does not want his people to do. Also, in Christianity it is a sin to have sexual intercourse before marriage, but people still do it because that is simply what they want to do. At the end of the day people still believe they will go to heaven, with the choices they made if they asked for forgiveness. 
	Religion is changeable.  I previously wrote about how Papa Nnukwu raised Eugene and Aunty Ifeoma in a Pagan household, but later in life when they were older they converted to Catholicism. They could have practiced the same religion as their father, but they converted because they wanted to. People Around the world today couples who have two different religious beliefs, either have two weddings that appropriate each of their religion or one of partners convert. Couples compromise or they break up because of their religious beliefs. This should not be a problem today because of people are doing what makes them happy, even if their parents are not.   
	In conclusion, religion affects people because the world is changing every day and is everyone in it. Rules that were made in the beginning of them or when a religion was created, has been broken because a lot of people are not traditional anymore. Religion is changeable, belief system differs, and it can break up relationships. Religion has been around for a long time and it is not going anywhere any time soon , so people are going to be dealing with problems because of it forever.
