On Campus Jobs for Students is the Way to Go
In college, the biggest issues that students have to overcome is the financial aspect, which usually is a struggle with most students. It has become common today that students often choose to work and go to school at the same time. Having a balance between work and school could be difficult for students no matter what age or year or college you are in, having a job could be very time consuming and affect a student’s education. According to King’s study of 12,000 undergraduates, students who work more than 15 hours per week are less likely to graduate in four years (Dundes, Marx). Sometimes students don’t have a choice to work or not depending on their situation with themselves or with their family. Most students working 10+ hours per week believe that off-campus work causes them to spend less time on their assignments, studying, and socializing and results in an increased stress level (Dundes, Marx). Universities providing jobs for students can help tremendously because campuses have a better understanding of the amount of workload that is given. Having a job on campus can help the solution of students who can not find a balance of school and work with jobs that are off campus. By students having job opportunities on campus, it can provide flexible hours and lenient study time for students to get work done and having understanding employers who give their employer support for students who are trying to catch up on their academics along with other benefits that on campus jobs can bring along the way.
  A student’s working hours can definitely affect their performance in their education. When in college counselors always mention that study time is very important and that we must study X amount of hours according to X amount of units that are in each class. However, with students working 10 plus hours it can affect their study time and lower a student’s GPA. In college, a student’s GPA is very important, GPAs can determine whether you can get into certain programs or even schools, such as medical school, nursing, etc.. In the article “Balancing Work and Academics in College: Why do Students Working 10 to 19 Hours Per Week Excel?” By Lauren Dunes and Jeff Marx states, “students who work fewer than 15-20 hours often have higher grade point averages (GPA) and graduation rates than their nonworking counterparts”.  With this being said students should be able to go to school and perform their best in their academics to achieve their goals on time and not fall behind because of work hours taking over almost their whole schedule for the day. Students should be able to have the option to be able to work fewer hours if needed no more than 10 plus hours. If their main focus is not on their academics their dream career cannot be met. For example, if a student wanted to become a doctor or a nurse they can fall behind and all of their hard work and dreams of getting into med-school can be an effect because of a certain GPA the school requires. So, the importance of having the right amount of hours of work for students is very crucial because it can really affect a student’s academic career. 
Students often do not graduate on time especially in their first four years of college due to work and school interfering with each other. When overworking yourself with work and school it can get physically and mentally tiring. Those working 20+ hours per week were least likely to identify themselves as applying themselves fully (Dunes, Marx 113). As a student, if you do not have the energy you need then you will not be able to work effectively with your academics.  Students who overwork are less likely to graduate in four years.  In the article “Academic Benefits of On-Campus Employment to First-Year Developmental Education Students” by Carolyn Wilkie and Marquita Jones they mention, “This study applies Astin's theory to a group of first-year developmental education students who were offered on-campus employment opportunities through a highly structured program wherein the students worked an average of eight hours per week. Results indicate that the students who took maximum advantage of this opportunity achieved significantly higher grades and were retained at significantly higher levels than other similar students” (37). With students having the opportunity to work fewer hours they can improve in their academics and excel in their grades. Jobs on campuses are not too intense and does not require busy work. With the opportunity given to students to work on campus, their GPA will not be hindered and they can keep a constant grade in their classes if the effort is really put into it. With that, it can lead to a successful path of graduating on time in four years.
 With this data provided, students should be limited to working too many hours per week in order to be able to study and go to school. Employers should give students if requested fewer hours per week in order to graduate on time and not waste money to finish a four year degree in 4 plus years. If students are taking more time to finish a four year degree then they are working to pay more just to go to school longer.
Having on campus jobs can be beneficial for students in plenty of ways. One of the jobs that offer benefits is peer tutoring. Having a job as a tutor on campus is not only beneficial for the students who need the extra help but for yourself as well being the tutor. In the article Academic Benefits of Peer Tutoring: A Meta-Analytic Review of Single-Case Research by Lisa Bowman-Perrott she discusses that “Peer tutoring is an instructional strategy that involves students helping each other learn content through repetition of key concepts.” If students are teaching the material then they will have the opportunity to learn the subject over again and improve their knowledge in the similar topics that they are currently taking in class. With this students will be able to sustain the material they’re teaching to students frequently throughout the week. In the end, as a tutor, it is a win-win situation because both parties are gaining something from the experience. 
When having a job on campus students have the opportunity to create professional relationships with the people around them. Being able to work with these adults on campus students have the upper hand to have connections for jobs or even having a letter of recommendation written. These employers on campus can be used as references to get a job that comes in the future. Having the experience for jobs that are similar to your future career goals can show future employers that you know what you are doing and you are ready for the work that the job requires. Jobs on campus can give students an experience of what type of work they are getting into. These types of experiences for students can really showcase to themselves if they are ready for the type of career they were dreaming of all of their life. For example, at University, if you are planning to become an academic counselor working down in support net can give students the opportunity to experience what it is like to help students and help them with anything they would need guidance on just like an actual counselor would. Depending on your work ethic and if you are serious about the career these employers can give you a letter of recommendation and help get you a job in the future. Getting to know your boss or co-workers can give you a group of people to give a good word out for you as the person applying for the job opening. Having job experiences, especially on college campuses, can really benefit students in getting a job anywhere.
Students who work on campus get flexible hours because the school is very understanding of students being able to have time to themselves to study or study while working. You can not work at a more understanding place for students than a college campus that understands the heavy workloads and the stressful exams that require so much preparation. During school hours employers can work around your schedule and make sure you have time to do other things that are important. Working on campus is very easy for students who live on campus because they do not have to travel very far to be able to go to work and class, which saves a tremendous amount of time for students not having to go place to place in a time crunch. Especially for international students who do not have a car any type of transportation. With these opportunities for students, they can be stress-free and not have to worry about having enough time to be able to make it to work and having to go to class at a certain time. With schools being considerate of these students who want/need to work they have the opportunity of becoming successful students and it will carry on with them in the future.
Jobs on campus also provide tuition assistance, which is very beneficial for students. Campuses can give students tuition reimbursement or any other type of assistance with their tuition needs if offered through the campus jobs. In the article “Understanding Sources of Financial Support for Adult Learners”, by Christopher B. Daugherty and Richard Woodland the authors states, “Pattie, Benson, and Baruch (2006), for example, found that employers who provided tuition-reimbursement programs were more likely to be viewed positively by their employees, and were also more likely to be viewed positively by their employees if the degrees they were supporting were directly related to an employee’s job responsibilities. Alternately, if an employee was pursuing a degree in a field unrelated to their current job title, they were much more likely to leave the organization upon receiving their degree” (183). With campuses providing tuition reimbursement to students it gives students a sign of relief by getting some help of tuition fees because going to school is not the cheapest. Students seeing reimbursements as a positive thing will have workers do their best on the job because they know they are getting benefits that come with their job. While employers are giving students reimbursements, the employers are receiving workers with great work ethics because of the great bonus that comes along with their experience of working on campus. With receiving tuition assistance students can have their extra money they have from scholarships or from working to pay for their books, lab materials, or even parking passes throughout the semesters. With providing the employee's tuition assistance students were able to become more successful and achieve their success by obtaining their degree with the employer support that was given through the assistance with the job they got working for the school.
A beneficial job that colleges provide for students who are living on campus is being a resident assistant. Students who are living on campus can be very costly for them, having a job such a residence assistance in student dorms can be provided with free student living and free access to the dining hall as well. This can really benefit students who are living away from home, but who are not financially stable to support themselves all on their own. This can prevent students from taking out student loans to be able to pay for students tuition and student living all together. By working with the residence assistance students can save a lot of money while making money with the job that the campus has to offer. By working the dorm rooms where students live, the job is at home where you live, so the study and homework hours are very flexible with students who have the opportunity to work as a resident assistant. Students can be making easy money while having an easy job and receiving a bonus of getting work done all at the same time. 
Working off campus is not a completely bad thing for students because they do get more working hours and more pay, however, employers are just not really understanding of school hours. In the article "The Underclass of Higher Education? Over-Worked and Under-Supported Foundation Degree Students and Achieving Work/Study Balance" by Jeanette Davies she states, “ It is argued that increases in the numbers of the working class, mature students succeeding in higher education can be encouraged through improved employer support, which will likely involve positive transformations in employer and colleague attitudes and organizational culture. Where such an employer attitude does not exist, students should take action to renegotiate working arrangements with their employer” (64). Without the support need from employers, student are not able to give their education their fullest and become successful as they wish to be in their academics. Employers should start having employee support for students, especially when needed during heavy times throughout the semester. A majority of jobs that are outside of the campus mostly like does not offer employer support. Off campus jobs should be as lenient, encouraging, and supportive as on campus jobs for students that need that support from their jobs in student education. 
    Students who can’t find the right balance of school and work should seek for jobs that are on campus to be able to have all of their needs meet of achieving the best education they can receive while still going to school at the same time. There are many opportunities college campuses can provide for students that are very beneficial to them now and the future. Students should really take advantage of job openings on campus to get the best employers that really understand the life of a college student. If there were more understanding jobs off campus a lot of students would have the luxury of having a job that would not interfere with their academics and also have an encouraging work environment that respects students’ academic needs. As well as college campuses providing more jobs to students in order to have an effortless and stress free time while working and going to school. Students should be invested in more because they are the future of the world. They should have the most convenience of working and not having to stress about not having enough time in a day to study for upcoming test or preparing for class projects. With the students having more flexible work hours and a stable schedule there will be an increasing number of students with higher GPAs and a higher graduation rate of students finishing on time in the time period of four years of their first year in college. Investing in students can not only benefit the students in general but also everyone else in the world because of the different careers that each student is taking can really benefit the world in their own way. 









Works Cited
Bowman-Perrott, Lisa, et al. "Academic Benefits of Peer Tutoring: A Meta-Analytic Review of 
Single-Case Research." School Psychology Review, vol. 42, no. 1, Mar. 2013, pp. 39-55. EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=86877018&site=ehost-live.  
Davies, Jeanette. "The Underclass of Higher Education? Over-Worked and Under-Supported 
Foundation Degree Students and Achieving Work/Study Balance." Widening Participation & Lifelong Learning, vol. 15, no. 1, Spring2013, pp. 54-70. EBSCOhost, doi:10.5456/WPLL.15.1.54.
Dougherty, B. Christopher and Richard Woodland. "Understanding Sources of Financial Support 
for Adult Learners." Journal of Continuing Higher Education, vol. 57, no. 3, Aug-Dec2009, pp. 181-186. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/07377360903250445.
Dundes, Lauren, and Jeff Marx. "Balancing work and academics in college: Why do students 
working 10 to 19 hours per week excel?." Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory & Practice 8.1 (2006): 107-120.
Wilkie, Carolyn; Marquita Jones. “Academic Benefits of On-Campus Employment to First-Year 
Developmental Education Students.”  Journal of The First-Year Experience & Students in 
Transition, no. 2, National Resource Center for The First-Year Experience & Students in Transition, 1 January 1994,  pp. 37-56. http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/fyesit/fyesit/1994/00000006/00000002/art00002
