Ag Education Teacher Retention
	A problem that Agriculture Educators face today is that teachers are not wanting to stay on this career path for long. The reason they do no stay is that they are paid almost the same as a regular instructor yet they put in hundreds of hours of more labor and stress. The average Agriculture Teacher only stays for five years before switching to teach a different subject. Ag Teachers are expected to take these students across the country for weeks only to be paid a small stipend. Agriculture programs are extremely well funded and people are proud to support new equipment for schools but generally do not want to give money to put in the educators pocket. With the teachers already having a teaching credential they are able to simply switch subjects because they have no incentive to stay and go through all of that extra time and stress. This paper will be reviewing Agriculture Education teachers and the impact they hold in the community inspiring the next generation and how they can affect students completely yet they are not rewarded for this. Some groups in society argue that they are actually being paid more than enough but they do not see all of the time these Ag Teachers put in to ensure a students project is market ready. Ag Teachers have such a big impact to students and should have a salary that reflects and encourages this.
	The article “The role of agricultural education institutions in knowledge transfer on agriculture entrepreneurship.” by Mimoza Koka explains how strongly Agricultural educators affect the next generation of entrepreneurs. According to this paper Agriculture programs helps create entrepreneurs through the organization of their meetings and how they are run. Meetings in the 4H or FFA clubs are run in a professional manner and shows kids from a young age how to present yourself in this environment. They are also meeting people that can make good connections later in life with people that  are strong supporters of the agriculture industry. Another way the Agricultural programs at school help prepare these students for entrepreneurial careers is the curriculum of making students learn a new skill that they can use all throughout their lives. The skill of making something from start to finish and being able to sell it for a profit is a maturing process. The other reason these education processes are so important is it give real life background experiences having to do with breeding, genetics, nutrition and more that you can not get sitting in a classroom. The article stresses the importance of agricultural education in this country, “The government should pay a special attention to the process of education of agricultural entrepreneurship, in the framework of the economic remodeling of our country, where agriculture gains a special importance”(Koka 4). Without agriculture our grocery stores would be barren so this industry is extremely important and relevant to everyone. You would think since this is such an important aspect of life that our educators would be well compensated for this but even the article explains, “The sharpest problem of the process of education of agricultural entrepreneurship is the lack of financial means in this regard.”(Koka 4). Teachers who are not in agriculture tend to speak negatively about the ag teachers salary being so much but they have no idea how many extra trips and time is spent outside the classroom with these kids. This is obviously a blatant issue that needs to be addressed immediately, these teachers have no reason to try so hard and stay in this career if they will not be compensated for it. 
	The article “Learning about agriculture within the framework of education for sustainability” by Tali Tal goes over the foundation of agriculture education and how important it is in a community. The article explains how important agriculture is in school by saying, “Field trips were recommended as a means for developing appreciation, knowledge and good morals, and outdoor education was the preferred method for acquiring these values” (Tal 3). They also talk about the importance behind students hands on experiences in agricultural areas. They also explain how students are allowed on the farm to help raise livestock and work with other areas of expertise outside the classroom. Though this is exciting and fun for some students very few choose to take these courses and even fewer go to college for this, the article then gives several statistics explaining this and the amount of those students  by numbers. Even though the amount of students is not very large the reviews for the quality of education is extremely positive. The article then goes over how agricultural education teachers are trained and claims higher education does not teach any agricultural courses and that the teachers are just trained like a regular teacher but pit in this different type of classroom. This is untrue as Fresno State has a large number of agricultural courses as well as many majors that show this. The article then explains how training the teachers in agricultural courses would help give a better quality education. Overall the article wants a quality education for the students and shows different ways to help train the teachers. Currently the state of California is trying to start agricultural education at a middle school level which is going to have a higher teacher demand but we do not have the numbers to satisfy this need. 
	The last article is called “Women surge ahead in agriculture education growth” explains the increase of females in agricultural education and how they affect the career longevity. “...girls are now a dominating force in agriculture education” (Women growth 1) is explaining how this career field is becoming predominately female and how much this is changing things. This is seen on a global scale and explains examples in countries such as India. Women can change several aspects of agriculture and this is explained with, “According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, if women had the same access to productive resource as men, they could increase yields on their farms by 20-30%, raising total agriculture output in developing countries by 2.5-4%” (Women growth 1). Women do tend to have the same resources men do so it is unclear where the article got this information but it is also proven that women tend to be more productive and the numbers show this. The agriculture industry needs hard working individuals and whether that is a man or a woman holds no difference, though these numbers are proving that women are harder workers. The article then explains the statistics of women enrolled at several different colleges and the number behind all of that. Overall this new trend of women in ag is fairly new and only time will tell how much they can do to shape the next generation.
	Agricultural Education is a remarkable degree that can change and inspire many lives. Working and having that much stress does come at a price and our school districts may be unwilling to pay this. An Ag teacher is shown through research to help create the next generation of entrepreneurs as well as help in all aspects of the community. With the new rise in women production is also shown to increase and this is only the start of this new generation of teachers that is about to enter the workforce. The problem the industry faces today is teacher retention and the only feasible solution is to raise the salary of these employees due to all of the extra hours that they put in. This is the only way good teachers would be willing to stay but it will be worth it for the next generation to already have a strong background in the industry.
Work Cited

GAUTAM, H. R., et al. "Women Surge Ahead in Agriculture Education Growth." Current Science (00113891), vol. 105, no. 9, 10 Nov. 2013, p. 1201. 

Tal, Tali. "Learning about Agriculture within the Framework of Education for Sustainability." Environmental Education Research, vol. 14, no. 3, June 2008, pp. 273-290. 

KOKA, MIMOZA. "The Role of Agricultural Education Institutions in Knowledge Transfer on Agriculture Entrepreneurship." Albanian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, vol. 12, no. 2, June 2013, pp. 239-241.