The Issue With STEM Majors 
There are many challenges that students face through college, especially for STEM majors. In the article “What Is STEM? A Discussion About Conceptions of STEM in Education and Partnerships” by Jonathan M. Breiner, he mentions “STEM stands for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics and within this there are a variety of challenging classes that come along within this area for STEM majors, such as mathematics, chemistry, biology, etc.” (3). Students who are in these courses struggle with these certain subjects that are required to take and often fail or change their major within the first year of taking these courses. Although SI session are very helpful for students, there should be mandatory classes that comes along with lectures that go in depth with these subjects just like an SI session, so a majority of students can actually become successful with the material, since it won’t be voluntary to go and have a lower fail rate. 
Many students who are STEM majors especially those who are incoming often struggle with this area. In the article, “Addressing STEM Retention Through a Scientific Thought and Methods Course” by Kathleen Koenig mentions, “Many incoming STEM majors are underprepared in content and cognitive abilities and struggle through introductory courses” (Koenig 23). Often SI sessions are not mandatory and students who are unprepared are not willing to put in their voluntary work to go to the sessions because the work is too overwhelming. Also, students may have changed their major to a STEM major and have no idea or no memory of what they have learned before in high school, so jumping into these materials can really be draining for students to try to be able to understand on their own. In the article Why Science Majors Change Their Minds (It’s Just So Darn Hard) by Christopher Drew he mentions,“We’re losing an alarming proportion of our nation’s science talent once the students get to college,” says Mitchell J. Chang, an education professor at U.C.L.A.” (Drew 2). Because students who are incoming are not prepared with the all of the intense material coming their way, having a class that is mandatory to be enrolled in will definitely benefit them with being successful in these challenging courses and prevent colleges from losing students that will truly benefit the world with their capabilities. 
Students that are incoming are going to need extra help because some are transitioning from high school and some students are not used to the workload that comes with college and the studying that is required for these courses. In the article, “Addressing STEM Retention Through a Scientific Thought and Methods Course” by Kathleen Koenig mentions, “Seymour and Hewitt found that 40% of STEM majors reported inadequate high school preparation as a problem in their current coursework” (Koenig 23). Many high schools do not have the proper preparation for these STEM classes that are required in college. Colleges and high schools should work together so with the material that needs to be known beforehand into coming into colleges that way students can be on track with the introductory classes that are introduced in the first semester of these courses. STEM courses should be introduced in high school so students will have a better chance at passing these courses within their first try along with the mandatory class. With this mandatory class students will gain better knowledge of the material and students who are unprepared will be able to pass the course with confidence. 
Often the most challenging courses in college are STEM courses because they require much more effort, yet nothing is being done to really help these students out with these courses.  In the article, “Addressing STEM Retention Through a Scientific Thought and Methods Course” by Kathleen Koenig mentions, “Within our introductory biology, chemistry, and physics courses the past two years 32% of 1,830 students were not successful and earned a D,F, or W” (Koenig 23). With nothing being done more students are going to fail and not much are going to on in these STEM major classes because of being discouraged of failing or not having confidence in themselves. The education system needs to help students in order to prevent students receiving low grades and withdrawing from theses classes that really ruin student’s GPAs. With so many students enrolling to be a STEM major not knowing what to expect with the material being taught the extra support for students could help students excel. 
In order to help these students excel in these STEM courses there are different options to help prepare and support students beforehand while taking the courses. In the article “Closing the Gaps and Filing the STEM Pipeline: A Multidisciplinary Approach” by Peggy Doerschuk, Cristian Bahrim, Jennifer Daniel, Joseph Kruger, Judith Mann, Christopher Martin, they offer some solutions on how to help the high STEM major changes by offering ideas such as, K-14 exposure and recruitment to STEM, enriched undergraduate research experience, peer and faculty mentoring and role models, etc. (Doerschuk 683). With trying out these different ways of keeping these students in the major, students may be able to develop the confidence to be able to stay in the STEM major area and become successful in these challenging majors. Having help for these struggling students can help students move on into this field of STEM and be very helpful to the world. Exposing students to these majors to students earlier will definitely get students to be familiar with the topic and help students get a head start for college courses. 
Some people may argue that students who really want to excel in these courses will go and actually try to attend SI sessions given if they really want to succeed in the courses, such as biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, etc.. However students who do not have the same motivation as others to make that effort to go to the sessions because of the overwhelming workload and students sometimes have classes to attend right after when SI sessions when these sessions occur. Also, as mentioned earlier students are unprepared and feel helpless to be able to get help because of the lack of confidence. So some students miss out on these helpful sessions that could really benefit them. 
Students are capable of passing these STEM courses with the extra help of being successful and closer to their career goal. There are different resources on campus that can help students to pass the classes they are struggling with, but what would make the most impact is to provide student with a madatoring tutoring class for students. Many students are capable of understanding the work, they just need the resources to help them out with becoming the best they can be with the support and motivation from their school. With this students will be able to learn the material and pass the class without having a bad letter grade on their record or an withdraw from the class. Each student is different from one another, but the ones who need a little more help will definitely benefit from this and gain knowledge as to what is take to pass a class and learning the material whether feeling unprepared or not. 

Works Cited
Breiner, Jonathan M., et al. "What Is STEM? A Discussion about Conceptions of STEM in 
Education and Partnerships." School Science & Mathematics, vol. 112, no. 1, Jan. 2012, pp. 3-11. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1949-8594.2011.00109.x.

Drew, Christopher. "Why science majors change their minds (It’s just so darn hard)." New York 
Times 4 (2011).

Doerschuk, Peggy, et al. "Closing the Gaps and Filling the STEM Pipeline: A Multidisciplinary 
Approach." Journal of Science Education & Technology, vol. 25, no. 4, Aug. 2016, pp. 682-695. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10956-016-9622-8

Koenig, Kathleen, et al. "Addressing STEM Retention through a Scientific Thought and 
Methods Course." Journal of College Science Teaching, vol. 41, no. 4, Mar. 2012, pp. 23-29. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=72661955&site=ehost-live.
