Growth of the Free and Enslaved
In the 17th century Virginia a lot was changing for the freedom of both the free and the African Slaves (not free). It all started in Jamestown in 1619 when the first ship ever carrying African slaves arrived (Class lecture). Even though they did arrive than it was not until the latter half of the 1600’s that plantation owners began to purchase African slaves in large numbers (Class lecture). It seemed that from the 1630’s to the 1690’s was when a lot of laws had changed and were made to make the African slaves understand that they are not people anymore and that they were property and their owners/masters had all the power to do as they wanted. These laws let them treat laborers as they wanted (Class lecture).
There were many laws made over the 1600’s to limit the power of the slaves and give the white male plantation owner more power. Interracial Relationships was a major problem that they wanted to end. In the 1630 the problem of Interracial Relationships really became a thing that they didn’t want to happen (Friday discussion). On September 17th, 1630, there was a law made to stop the relations of the slaves, a man by the name of Hugh Davis was caught laying with a black person and was whipped and also had to confess what they had did in front of the entire church (Virginia Race Laws). They felt that laying with a black person was a Dishonor to god and a shame of Christians (Virginia Race Laws). Over time this law was not working so they had to make a new law to keep this from happening. In December of 1662 there was a law to make any child born a slave mother is not free and a slave as well (Virginia Race Laws). More white men were having sex with their slaves so they were having children, they saw that as an opportunity to have more workers and make more money (Friday discussion). 
There were so may slaves brought over to the Virgins in the 17th century that there were actually more slaves then white man (Class lecture). These slaves were trying to find ways to be free and resist their master’s authority (Class lecture).  They found some ways to do this without being non-violent such as burning crops, burn barns, and refuse to work (Class lecture). There was another option which was to just simply runaway but there were laws made about that and there was imply no place to run to (Class lecture). There were several laws set to stop this from happening. In October of 1669 there was a law that said that if any slave resists their master’s orders or corrected them the master could kill them and not be charged with anything because that their property and they have the right to do as they please (Virginia Race Laws). In June 1680, there was a lot set up again Resistance which was punishable by death and in 1691 there was a law that if you were not obeying orders of someone in power they had the right to kill you.
All of this was to show the slaves that they were nothing more than property, they wanted them to know that they did not have the same rights as the whites did (Friday discussion). There were laws were set that told them exactly what they couldn’t and could do which wasn’t much. They couldn’t get help to run away if someone helped them they would have to serve the time that the slave was absent (Virginia Race Laws). They were making it pretty much impossible for them to have any freedom. A child that was born a save had no way of becoming free. They though that being baptized would make them free but a law made in 1667 said that no matter if they were baptized they were still not considered free (Virginia Race Laws). And if they even tried to have a slave gathering or a weapon they could be killed (Friday discussion). 
All these things that they couldn’t do makes you realize that the slaves had no freedoms at all. There were limitations on everything that they could do to make the white men feel more in power. They knew that if the slaves worked together or got helped from others that they would soon enough have more power than them and they didn’t want that. During the 17th century the whites seemed to have all the freedoms in the world while the slaves were treated as property with no rights to live their own life.
