What is The Wife of Bath?
In Geoffrey Chaucer’s “The Canterbury Tales,” many unconventional characters thrived in an otherwise limiting world.  The storytelling game that is introduced in the general prologue does away with conventional societal standards, and creates a safe environment in which the characters can speak their minds.  This is especially important for The Wife of Bath's character.  While it is well established that The Wife of Bath will gladly speak her mind, this open atmosphere allows her to freely go into detail, particularly in her prologue.  The Wife of Bath's prologue is impressively divisive; on one hand The Wife of Bath seems to fall into every negative stereotype about women in her day, and on the other hand she appears to be an audacious proto feminist.  But, there are many problems with both arguments.  It is more likely that The Wife of Bath is neither a symbol of all negative female stereotypes, nor is she a proud proto feminist; but rather, she is simply human.  She is Chaucer's attempt at creating a realistic, if not exaggerated, example of a woman during this period.
The Wife of Bath’s character is often reduced to a cartoonish amalgam of all the negative stereotypes the church had about women during this era.  But she is not nearly that simple or concise.  She is intelligent, and perceptive to the point that she spends much of her prologue mocking and dismantling the sexist views many of her husbands, and much of the church, harbored.  In her prologue, she comments, “By God, if wommen hadden writen stories, / As clerkes han within hir oratories, / They wolde han writen of men more wikkednesse” (Chaucer 699-701).  In this passage, The Wife of Bath proves that she can see the under-workings of society, so the negative stereotypes she fits must have been consciously accepted.  The Wife of Bath obviously understands that the popular views of women are unrealistic and demeaning, and she recognizes that the men in power have created these standards.  For that reason, one must ask whether The Wife of Bath can be a symbol of all the negative stereotypes about women, when she defines herself so completely by her knowledge of the traps of patriarchal society.  A woman who defines herself cannot so easily be characterized by stereotypes.  Because she is human, she bursts from those molds.
Despite The Wife of Bath’s insight, she is not the perfect proto-feminist either.  Throughout her prologue she speaks of the inequalities of the church’s ideals for women, but she still does many morally questionable things to serve her own desires.  She regularly brags about using the men she married to make herself rich and powerful.  She sums those actions up well when she says, “What sholde I take keep hem for to plese,/ But it were for my profit and myn ese?” (Chaucer 219-220).  Instead of fighting for equality in her marriages, The Wife of Bath uses sex as a bargaining tool to gain power.  She has the power, boldness, and intelligence to gain rights for herself and advance her fellow women as well, but instead she chooses to use sex to get her way.  She had the resources at her disposal to educate herself and gain power on her own, but she chose to play into one of the most negative female stereotypes possible.  The Wife of Bath, instead of proving that women were not the evil things the church claimed, used seduction to gain money and influence.  When focusing only on The Wife of Bath’s story, it is easy to get swept up in the thrill of taking advantage of those who have seemingly wronged or who have taken advantage of her. But, when one looks at the larger cultural picture, her actions only truly serve herself, causing greater harm to her fellow women.  Her example could give misogynists justification for their beliefs, effectively condemning any other women who try to rise to positions of power to be accused of doing the same as The Wife of Bath.   This selfish behavior is enough to make anyone hesitate to label The Wife of Bath an iconic proto-feminist.  She is too flawed for that ideal.  But still, she is only human.
The Wife of Bath is a proud, and obviously flawed character.  She openly shares details about her life that may have been too personal, and she is vain. For all of these flaws it could easily seem like The Wife of Bath is a caricature of a woman.  She has even been married five times, and justifies it by saying, “But wel I woot, expres, withouten lie, / God bad us for to wexe and multiplye” (Chaucer 24-25).  The combination of all these exaggerated traits makes one question whether The Wife of Bath is a gag character.  There doesn’t seem to be anything genuine included in her character, but, underneath the extravagant surface, is a complex, nuanced person.  The Wife of Bath is still an archetypal character, like the many other characters in The Canterbury Tales, but her representation is not as easily identified as The Miller’s or The Knight’s.  She is representative of all the ways women defy characterization, for better or for worse.  All the triumphs and the flaws of The Wife of Bath combine to create a very human character.  She is not the flagship for negative female stereotypes, and she is not a saintly proto-feminist leader.  She is merely human, and therefore resists categories.
There may be something inherently feminist about attempting to portray a woman as a human rather than an exemplification, but it is important to remember that women are not ideals to be achieved or stereotypes to be abhorred.  All women are simply people.  The Wife of Bath depicts that in her divisiveness as well as in her ability to inspire.  This complex picture of a woman is far more important than the one-sided stereotypes of many other female characters because it shows the capacity for evil and the capacity for good inherent in women, and in all people.
