

The primary idea for my research is finding out whether new, hard-working individuals are as monetarily valuable as tenured staff workers. By doing so, I hope to learn the opinions of all workers regarding their hourly wage pay. I also would like to understand if this effect their quality of work in a positive, or negative manner.
Should workers be compensated based on the quantity and quality of their work, or by how long they have been employed?
Working Thesis:
Newcomers in the work field who are trying to impress their employers by taking on multiple roles at their best potential are being compensated less than those who are tenured and believe they are “invincible”.
Employers are overlooking new workers who may be bringing new, exciting work ethics into the work place and overpaying tenured, traditional-styled workers.
Sub-arguments:
Most workers believe they are underpaid for their services in the workplace.
Factors that are not work-related should not be considered when deciding wages.
*Unless they put in the extra work
Different departments and skills should account for different amounts toward a worker’s final wage.
Some positions are harder than others. But each are difficult in their own ways.
The total number of hours worked by an employee should have more of an impact on wage than their tenure.
Raises should not only be due to length of employment.
Inconvenient and busy shifts are typically given to newer employees before tenured ones.
Busy shifts – Christmas eve, First day of a new month
Inconvenient shifts – Thanksgiving, Fourth of July
Refutation:
Employees who have worked for a long time and work full time will naturally make more than a newcomer who works full time.
Tenured workers will be the first to receive holiday shifts at their request because employers are more likely to increase wages for that day.
A tenured worker will have more skills than a newcomer because they have worked longer.
Employers are more likely to give raises to tenured workers because they can trust that their quality of work will not decrese.
