 COMING OF AGE
“Growing up is losing some illusions, in order to acquire others” (Virginia Woolf).  Coming of age is the transition from being a child to becoming an adult. The novel Purple Hibiscus tells a story in the point of view of a fifteen-year-old girl living in Enugu, Nigeria with her father, mother and older brother.  Her family is stuck under the control of her strict Catholic father, who’s emotionally and physically abuses them. Kambili’s Aunt Ifeoma invited Kambili and her brother to visit her family in Nsukka. After spending time away from her home, Kambili undergoes some major changes causing her to start the process of maturing into a young adult. The question you maybe thinking in your head is “How does the author use Kambili in the literary text to illustrate maturity over the course of the novel?” When using the literary devices repetition, juxtaposition, and imagery the author shows how Kambili matures over the course of the novel.
. 
	To gain your own voice means to be able speak up for yourself and to speak loud enough for others to hear as well as understand your position. In the beginning of the novel, Kambili was shy and reticent. She dealt with people talking about her and to her without any reply. Aunt Ifeoma’s daughter would taunt Kambili on a regular basis. One-day Aunt Ifeoma heard it and intervened saying “O ginidi, Kambili, have you no mouth? Talk back to her!”. Kambili took her aunt’s advice and responded to defend herself. Finally, she found her voice and stood up for herself. She started to become more open to speaking her mind and standing up for herself. This minor change is the kickstart to Kambili’s journey of maturing. The author used the literacy device repetition to show how Kambili repeatedly stayed quite until someone told her to stop.  In the beginning of the novel, Kambili was shy and reserved. She would allow people to say anything about her no matter if it was true or false. 
	An independent person is not influenced or controlled by others. Before visiting her aunt, she didn’t do anything she wanted or liked to do. She was restricted by her father’s rules and controlling ways. After her trip to Nsukka everything changed for Kambili. When she returned to school she began participating in sports such as volleyball. She showed maturity by not allowing others ignorance to discourage her or make a her feel a certain way. She used to be silent and shy while listening to others. Now, she’s becoming independent while having a voice and speaking up when there is a concern. She’s maturing by looking at things from a different point of view. Looking at things through her own eyes instead of others. Kambili is coming full circle in becoming a person that can stand on her own while surrounded by others.  The author used the literacy device juxtaposition to help compare how Kambili was at the beginning of the novel to how she was at the end of the novel.  Kambili used to allow a person’s thoughts and comments keep her away from doing things she was capable of or things she just wanted to do. Now, she speaks up for herself and does the things she would like to do.
	Making sacrifices for the good of others without resentment show great maturity. In the Achike when one person gets in trouble, everyone takes their share of the punishment. Papa banned his family for having a relationship with his father. He told his children that his father was a heathen and they could only spend fifteen minutes with him. During her trip to Nsukka, Kambili became closer her grandfather. She was able to make her own judgement, which was the opposite of her father’s. Before Kambili left, Aunt Ifeoma’s daughter gave Kambili a picture of their grandfather as a gift. Kambili knew that if she was caught with the painting she would be punished. Kambili shared the painting with her brother. They stared at the painting without caring if their father came upstairs. Their father caught them with the painting and he reacted in rage. Kambili made the sacrifice to take the punishment for her family. She showed that she is mature enough to make suffices for the good of others without having resentment. The author used the literacy device imagery to give readers the vision of Kambili making sacrifice for her family. He includes that Kambili said “I dashed to the pieces on the floor as if to save them, as if saving them would mean saving Papa-Nnukwu.”. He also included that Papa said, “Get away from that painting!” Kambili did nothing.
Throughout the novel, Kambili interacts and meets with many different people. The people she met helped her the most in her transformation from being a child to be an adult. She found her own voice, independence within herself and learned to make sacrifices. Becoming of age is a process that everyone must go through. Different events, people and environments can affect the start of the maturity. The author displayed that through the character Kambili, while using the literary devices repetition, juxtaposition, and imagery.
