Lori Andrew’s Facebook is Using You Illustrative Essay
“Government Surveillance is not about the government collecting the information you’re sharing publicly and willingly; it’s about collecting the information you don’t think you’re sharing at all, such as online searches you do on search engines… or private emails or text messages...or the location of your mobile phone at any time”. This quotation is from computer security expert, Mikko Hypponen, and his quote is about how the government invades personal space of internet users and the users are not even aware. The quotation represents the main issues that are focused on in a short essay Facebook is using you by Lori Andrews. Andrews is a law professor at Chicago-Kent and an author of many books and articles such as this one. In this essay, Andrews talks about how the use of the internet is a way in which websites, such as Facebook, gather information for many reasons. The data that is being collected can cause a lot of internet users to have limited opportunities. The internet can also portray users in a certain way. The collected data can also be used for creating stereotypes. Additionally, Andrews argues vigorously against the use of Facebook and other similar platforms because those platforms gather internet user’s information to create stereotypes, invade personal space, and discriminates against users based on their research. 
The primary reason Andrews argues vigorously against the use of Facebook and other similar websites is that such social media platforms gather the information of internet users to create stereotypes. According to Andrews, “Stereotyping is alive and well in data aggregation. Your application for credit could be declined not based on your own finances or credit history, but on the basis of aggregate data- what other people whose likes and dislikes are similar to yours have done.” Andrews informs readers that platforms that are very popular in society are secretly gathering and storing information through data aggregation and creating stereotypes based on similar likes and dislikes.  If there is a certain number of people of a specific group who do not like something, everyone who is categorized in that group is assumed to have similar preferences. This is where stereotyping comes into play. Not everyone who falls into a certain group shares the same likes and dislikes. In her short writing, Andrews gives an example of stereotyping. Her example states, “If guitar players or divorcing couples are more likely to renege on their credit card bills, then the fact that you’ve looked at guitar ads or sent an email to a divorce lawyer might cause a data aggregator to classify you as less creditworthy”.  Another example of this same scenario is if piano players are more likely to pay their rent late, and someone does research on pianos in general, then that person would be assumed as a late rent payer. When that person decides to look for a new apartment or home, that person can be turned down the home or apartment because the data that the person researched was collected and used to create a stereotype against that person who researched anything about pianos. Stereotypes can be one main reason why internet users have limited opportunities. 
In addition, Andrews argues vigorously against the use of Facebook and other similar platforms because it invades the personal space of internet users. As an example, “LexisNexis has a product called Accurint for Law Enforcement, which gives government agents information about what people do on social networks”. This product allows the government to see what internet users do while on social media without consent. Social media platforms give the government permission to access internet user’s online accounts to see and gather what information they want. Another example from Andrew’s short essay she argues, “In 2007 and 2008, the online advertising company NeBuAd contracted with six Internet Service Providers to install hardware on their networks that monitored user’s Internet activities and transmitted that data to NebuAd’s services for analysis and used in marketing.” This shows how internet users are being watched by third parties without their consent. These third parties collect this information for their own purposes. Internet users who use social platforms are not aware that this illegal activity is going on and that they should be more cautious of what is being done over the internet. 
Lastly, Andrews vigorous argument against the use of Facebook and other similar platforms is it discriminates against internet users based on what they have researched. The information that internet user’s place on social platforms can be collected and used against them when trying to find opportunities to improve their living. According to Andrews, “The term [redlining] came from the practice of bank officials who drew a red line on a map to indicate where they would not invest. But use of the term expanded to cover a wide array of racially discriminatory practices, such as not offering home loans to African-Americans, even those were wealthy and middle class.” A person can be searching for a new home online and through that search, invaders may can determine the race of the internet user and when the research is contacted, that person can be turn down on a home loan, despite the social class of that person. According to Andrews, “the bits and bytes about your life can be easily used against you. Whether you can obtain a job, credit or insurance can be based on your digital doppelganger-and you may never know why you’ve been turned down”. In other words, a person’s “digital doppelganger” or someone who shares a strongly identical search history can limit a person’s opportunities without their knowledge.  
In conclusion, Facebook and other similar platforms give access to the government to collect and use internet’s user’s information that can put internet users at risks of not having the ability to own a home, take out loans, and other opportunities that can be limited by companies. The information that is collected by internet users can be used to discriminate against them. Stereotypes are also created based on research that internet users have done. Andrews proves these statements based on information in her research which shows that her reasonings are valid. Internet users should be thoughtful about what specific information should and should not be posted online. Although many internet users may feel that their personal information is kept private, it is in fact not private because social media platform workers allow government workers to see all information that is posted whether it is private, public, or if the settings are set for only certain viewers. Many internet users may also not realize the issues that is going with these platforms and can be put at risk of not being able to have certain opportunities. Data aggregation can also cause opportunities to be limited. Internet users should be cautious on what they do on the internet because once it is posted, it can never be erased.
