
The plastic problem
Plastic is everywhere.  It is present in some form or another in almost every human-occupied space: schools, homes, office buildings, grocery stores, and cars.  It is your shampoo container, the vessel carrying your yogurt, the pens in your backpack.  Plastic is desirable because of its multifunctional properties, its relatively cheap production, and its long-lasting durability. Plastic’s durability is viewed as a positive quality for obvious reasons, but its increasingly persistent appearance in our natural environment shows us how its durability is a problem. One-use plastics in the United States and around the world are being produced and used by the growing population at an ever-increasing rate. Due to lack of proper plastic disposal, this is creating a proportional increase in plastic pollution that is wreaking havoc on the natural world.  In order to solve this plastic pollution problem the disposal must be addressed at several fronts: consumers and individual governments must take direct action to create an efficient recycling regime minimizing plastics presence in the wild. Educating consumers about plastics toxicity to environment, implementing policies encouraging citizens to recycle, and using new technology to recycle maximum amount of plastic for repurpose are some initial steps we can take to combat this global issue.
	Because plastic is so prevalent in today’s society, it may seem like an essential; many argue that its unique versatile properties are required in at least some industries. Andrady and Neal, writers of “The societal benefits of Plastic”, highlight the importance of plastic, describing how it has enabled the cultivation and safe widespread distribution of clean drinking water. It has also played a vital role in medical and other scientific innovations (Andrady and Neal).  Much of the plastic we use today is made to last a lifetime with continuous uses, however there are also plastics made only to be discarded after one use. According to Xanthos and Walker, reviewers of the article “International policies to reduce plastic marine pollution from single-use plastics”, the annual plastic production rate as of 2015 was approximately 300 million tons, but about 50 percent was disposed only after a single use (Xanthos and Walker). These “disposable” plastics are not, however, being properly disposed of, and a large percentage end up not in landfills or recycling facilities for repurposing, but in our forests, rivers, and oceans. Free-diver and environmentalist Tanya Streeter asks, “How can a product be disposable if it’s made of an indestructible material?”(A plastic ocean 11:00) (add to somewhere else in paper?)
The life span of plastic varies depending on the type of plastic and the environment in which it ends up, but it is estimated that it can take hundreds to thousands of years to break down (Barnes et al.). However, in the ocean and along coastlines where sunlight penetrates the water’s surface and waves cause physical abrasion, plastic can break down in as little as one year (Barnes et al.).  Prolonged exposure to UV rays contributes to the photo-degradation of the plastics into micro-plastic size, expanding the number of vulnerable organisms: “the weathering of plastic debris causes fragmentation into particles that even small invertebrates may ingest” (Jambeck). The microplastics (fragmented plastic) in collaboration with larger plastics pose a threat to virtually all marine life and those that inhabit land as well. So, how is all of this plastic entering our oceans and wild habitats and how can it be stopped? Part of the solution lies in plastics proper disposal and efficient recycling. Those that purchase all of the plastic for everyday use and directly dispose in the trash as opposed to the recycling must be enlightened about the detriments of plastic.
	It is difficult to argue that plastic is somehow good for the environment or even that its impact on our oceans and wildlife are minimal, but it is easy for people to forget about this issue with the bustle and stress of their everyday lives.  While this is understandable, the plastic disposal issue cannot be neglected.  Many people remain ignorant of the negative effects of plastic or maybe just the scope of the problem; others know of the problem and simply do not care enough to make the most eco-conscious decision when it comes to the buying and disposing of plastic. For those unaware of the issue, education is the answer. “More attention and resources need to be devoted to increasing the awareness of consumers about the environmental consequences of litter, as this is the most effective solution” (Andrady and Neal). Displaying precisely how plastic negatively impacts places and creatures people care about can change entire perspectives and create empathy. This empathy can change consumers’ purchasing habits and make them more likely to recycle. Many will argue that changing peoples’ habits is a difficult feat especially on such a large scale, and to some extent this is true since choosing plastic alternatives and finding recycling bins, as opposed to trash cans, means compromising convenience. Some may even say their individual impact will not make a difference, but this is only true when a majority of people have that same mentality; to effect change individuals must think greater than themselves and adopt a united frame of mind. Exposing the true horrors of a plastic-dependent world will evoke enough guilt and inspiration to supersede convenience and initiate immediate change.  Truly moved citizens even have the potential to influence the creation of environmental policies since many governments rely on feedback from the people when making decisions that will affect all lives.
	When voicing concerns for the health of the planet, it is all governments’ duty to be receptive. If we create widespread campaigns, enlightening the public about the detriments of plastic, we can help effect a movement within our governments to address the issue. While many consumers will heed the call for better disposal, some may still not grasp the importance. To account for this, we must enact legislation that requires all citizens to recycle their plastics properly or at least give incentives for recycling. Jacqueline McGlade, director of the European Environment Agency, has declared (referencing specifically Austria, Germany, UK and Ireland): “in a relatively short time, some countries have successfully encouraged a culture of recycling, with infrastructure, incentives and public awareness campaigns” (Highest recycling…increase).  Germany has developed a successful recycling regime not only through policies to increase consumer-recycling motivation, but through laws that hold plastic producers and distributors responsible for their own environmentally-friendly waste disposal (Brassaw).  Holding the distributors responsible for the waste prompts the distributors to recycle and reuse as much as possible, therefore increasing the recycling rate; Germany’s distributor accountability policy along with developed recycling culture has led to an overall 9% increase in the country’s recycling rate from 2009 to 2015 (Brassaw).  While motivating or requiring consumers and producers to dispose of plastic in the responsible manner is part of the solution, part of it lies within the recycling industry itself.  
Current recycling facilities around world are not repurposing the recycled plastic due inefficient sorting techniques, allowing much of it to end up in landfills where it is susceptible to the elements transporting it anywhere and everywhere. TED Talk speaker, Mike Biddle addresses this issue in his “We can recycle plastic” presentation. He insists that plastic is a valuable resource we cannot afford to waste. While over 90 percent of recycled metals are recovered and repurposed, less than 10 percent of recycled plastic is recovered. Most of it (plastic) is incinerated or dumped in a landfill never to be used again (Biddle 03:21). Biddle lists sorting difficulty as one of the reasons for plastic’s lack of repurposing; distinguishing between different types of plastic is not easy due to their similar “overlapping narrow range of densities and similar magnetic and electrical properties” (Biddle 04:10). However, Biddle has invented new technology that sorts the plastics in an efficient and precise manner allowing for almost 100% recovery. Other scientists employed by the U.S. Navy have created a machine that reduces all plastic to its basic components to be used in repurposing (A Plastic Ocean 1:10:00). This new technology just needs to be implemented at all global recycling facilities and we will not only reduce the amount of plastic entering our natural environment, but drastically decrease global production of plastic as well. 
	While plastic use will continue to play a crucial role in our society for some time to come, we, the people must acknowledge the threat it poses to our planet’s health. Plastics are discarded in irresponsible manners and end up devastating our natural world and its vulnerable inhabitants. We, therefore, cannot only acknowledge plastic as a problem, but must proactively fight to restrict it presence in natural environments. By enlightening consumers to the detriments of plastics in the wild, we can cultivate a united, eco-conscious public committed to proper plastic disposal and even plastic alternative options. An informed public will also generate engagement in government policy making. While the global plastic production, consumption and displacement of plastic is a complex issue that cannot be easily fixed, increased consumer awareness along with government policy alterations and the implementation of new recycling technology will undoubtedly minimize plastics appearance in the natural world.

Works Cited
A Plastic Ocean(Documentary). Directed by Craig Leeson, featuring, Sir David Attenborough, 
	Tanya Streeter, and Sylvia Earle. 2016.
Andrady, A. L., and M. A. Neal. “Applications and Societal Benefits of Plastics.” Philosophical 
	Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, vol. 364, no. 1526, 2009, pp. 
	1977–1984, rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/364/1526/1977.short#sec-5. 
	Accessed 26 September 2017.
Barnes, D. K. A., et al. “Accumulation and fragmentation of plastic debris in global	environments.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences,	vol. 364, no. 1526, 2009, pp. 1985–1998,	rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/364/1526/1985.short#sec-9. Accessed 28	September 2017.
Biddle, Mike. “We can recycle plastic: ideas worth spreading.” TED, July 2011,	https://www.ted.com/talks/mike_biddle. Accessed 1 October 2017.
Brassaw, Brian. “Germany: a recycling program that actually works”. Earth911, 11 July 2017,	http://earth911.com/business-policy/recycling-in-germany/. Accessed 29 October 2017.
“Highest recycling rates in Austria and Germany – but UK and Ireland show fastest increase.”	June 2016, https://www.eea.europa.eu/media/newsreleases/highest-recycling-rates-in	-austria. Accessed November 01, 2017
Jambeck, J. R., et al. “Plastic Waste Inputs from Land into the Ocean.” Science, vol. 347, no.	6223, 13 Feb. 2015, pp. 768–771,	http://science.sciencemag.org.liblink.uncw.edu/content/347/6223/768.full. Accessed 24	September 2017.
Xanthos, Dirk, and Tony R. Walker. “International policies to reduce plastic marine pollution	from single-use plastics (Plastic bags and microbeads): A review.” Marine Pollution	Bulletin, vol. 118, no. 1-2, 2017, pp. 17–26,	http://www.sciencedirect.com.liblink.uncw.edu/science/article/pii/S0025326X17301650	ScienceDirect. Accessed 28 September 2018.
