Results of VC (standing) and height indicated a strong positive correlation (r = 0.715) that exceeded the tabulated value (0.201) at p= 0.05. This supported the hypothesis that VC correlated with the parameter of height. It is likely that lung size is increased with height. If the size of the lungs is increased then it is likely the maximum volume of air is increased, and consequently VC. Height and VC has been studied before in other studies. In 1992, a study looked for a correlation between nasal air resistance (NAR), height, and vital capacity. In their study of 76 volunteers between the ages of 18 and 71, with an average age of 28, no correlation was found between NAR and VC. However, similar to our study they found a strong positive correlation (r = 0.76) between VC and height. Our study did not look at NAR, but it is likely that VC had no correlation to NAR since it only affects the flow of air and not total volume of the lungs. 
 
The results for VC (standing) and chest circumference suggested a positive correlation as well. However, the calculated value (r = 0.449) did not indicate as strong of a correlation as the VC and height. This result also supported the hypothesis that VC correlated with the parameter of chest circumference. A larger chest circumference would allow for more expansion of the lungs. This would allow for a much larger volume of air to be inhaled and exhaled for VC in comparison to a smaller chest circumference. In a study by Alberto Hurtado and Walter W. Fray, they found that there was a positive correlation between chest volume and VC, but not between chest circumference and VC. They found that chests with a longer height but smaller circumference had a higher VC in comparison to subjects that had shorter chest heights and larger circumferences. The subjects with wider chests had a smaller chest volume on average in comparison to the subjects with smaller circumferences. This suggests that chest volume had more of an impact on VC than actual circumference on its own. We did not look at chest volume, but it is still plausible that a wider chest could still have more volume than a smaller chest circumference.  

For heart beats per minute (bpm) and VC (standing) there was no significant correlation found between the two. The calculated value (r = -0.124) did not exceed the tabulated value (0.201) and could not be accepted as having correlation to a 95% certainty. BPM did not directly affect how much volume the lungs can hold, so it is reasonable that they would have no correlation. Thus, this parameter did not support our hypothesis. It is unlikely that bpm would affect VC. If we had measured VC both prior and after raising bpm with physical exertions then perhaps there would have been some effect on VC, but it there is little literature that has studied the correlation between bpm and VC. 

Lifestyle and personal choices were also analyzed. The lifestyle choice of smoking was not prevalent enough in our study to do a proper analysis on the differences between smokers and nonsmokers. However, in a longitudinal study it was observed that diminishing VC was more pronounced in smokers in comparison to nonsmokers (Bande, 1978). Smoking has been shown to damage and impair respiratory functions, so the diminished VC is to be expected for long term smokers. For females, there was no significant difference between athletes' and non-athletes' average VC for standing or sitting positions. The same result for athletes' and non-athletes' average VC was obtained for males as well. This was surprising because it is typically accepted that athletes have a higher VC due to more regular physical training. This contrasts with the results of another study that found the mean VC of athletes was significantly higher than nonathletes (Douglas, 1959). The difference may lie in the definitions of athletes. Our athletes were anyone who is trained in exercises or contests involving physical skill, stamina, and/or strength and participate regularly. Our definition leaves a lot of room for interpretation. There is also a wide variety of activities that could qualify someone to be an athlete, but not be as intense on the respiratory system and increase VC. Between males and females, males had a higher average VC for both sitting and standing. This is not surprising since males on average were both taller and had a larger chest circumference, both having a positive correlation to VC.  

In conclusion, there is evidence that height and chest circumference affect VC. However, bpm does not seem to affect VC. I am curious to see how chest volume in comparison to chest circumference for VC would be worth investigating, since chest circumference does not take into account the length of the torso, while volume would take both length and circumference into consideration. For bpm, it could be worth looking to see how a short amount of physical activity that would raise bpm would affect VC, and compare it to a subject's resting bpm and VC. This would allow us to see how an elevated bpm would affect VC. I believe for future studies that a larger sample size is needed to accurately access the difference between smokers' and nonsmokers' VC. I think a more concise and specific definition of an athlete, such as an exact number of times of physical activity a week or a duration, may be needed to get a better contrast between athletes and non-athletes. If another study took these into account, they may be able to more accurately find correlations between VC and these different physical parameters.  








http://europepmc.org/abstract/med/1470827
https://www.jci.org/articles/view/100541/version/1/pdf/render
http://jap.physiology.org/content/14/4/507.short
