Running head: Pay by responsibility or Seniority	1
Pay by responsibility or Seniority	3



Abstract
The following paper states and explains data that collected through an interview process about which aspects should be included when determining pay rate. Previous works of McEvoy and Cascio (1989) and Ng and Feldman (2008) begin by stating the relationship between age and the work itself, as well as how luxuries resonate with employees. The data-collecting method will be explained and the data itself will be stated. Workers tend to not like talking about their pay and/or salary. But, when questioned, they often explain what is unfair about their job before discussing their pay. Younger workers especially follow this. It begs whether workers should be compensated by responsibilities or age. Tenured workers can have abundant responsibilities, but might not work their best. That is why ability and responsibility should be a prime focus. 
Keywords:  pay rate, method, responsibilities, abilities, focus

Ability and responsibility should be a prime focus, rather than tenure, in determining compensation. Soon, most of the work force will be nearing or already of retirement age. In today’s world, most entry-level employees have just finished college and carry a large amount of debt. It could be seen as unfair if their pay rate is affected by the employer’s choice to focus the higher percentage of wages on the experienced employees, who may only receive that rate based on their tenure.
Literature Review
Tenured workers are typically the highest paid employees within a company, due to their growth with the company. Employees are not paid based on their value to the company (i.e. awareness to new methods, willingness to expand inside and out of the workplace, attitude in the office). Ng and Feldman (2008) review in their research article that when employees eclipse the age of forty, job establishment is no longer as important as one’s job maintenance. It is also at this age that one is expected to be able to go above and beyond the common core tasks and report to work in a timely manner every single day. Although Ng and Feldman (2008) did not find age to effect performance in the basic tasks, it did suggest that performance in training programs for new positions was significantly altered by age. Employees that have established everyday routines found it harder to accept and succeed in newer rules; if one fails the training completely, the time and money is also wasted. 
Similarly, Bălaş-Timar (n.d.) studied the slope in employee’s job performance after one enters the field. A group of 51 workers was randomly selected, from 25 to 39 years of age. It was found that the employee’s aged close to 25 had a job performance that was ranked a 3 out of 5 (on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being the best possible). Shortly after, job performance had slowly declined until the age of 35. Bălaş-Timar (n.d.) did however find a rare and dramatic increase in some employee’s job performance during this period. Workers aged 35 to 39 were either completing their tasks at a high rate of 4.5 or a moderately low rate of 2. The use of references in this study were up to date with current day technology, the latest being in 2014. The study of Ng and Feldman (2008), which states with routines comes stubbornness and distractions, is confirmed by the research of Bălaş-Timar (n.d.).
Ng and Feldman (2008) also expanded upon a 1998 research focused on absenteeism. Absenteeism is the repetition of missing something in its entirety, no matter how frequent. It was found that when upper-level (tenured) employees missed work, their subordinates were called upon to finish their tasks, ultimately leading to the failure of completing their own tasks.
In a study conducted by Kubeck, Delp, Haslett, and McDaniel (1996), over six thousand workers were observed. Their time to complete training and the quality of their final tasks were reviewed and placed into a percentile equation. It was found that age was negatively related to the time taken to complete training at a mastery level (r = -.26), but was positively related to the time and quality taken to complete final tasks (r = .28) (Kubeck, Delp, Haslett, and McDaniel, 1996). Relation to age and job performance is steadily positive (McEvoy & Cascio, 1989). The researchers also reported that it was hard to obtain studies that took the moderators of age into perspective.
Greenberg (1988) describes the equity theory and the ways in which it is applied. The equity theory states that employees that receive more or less rewards for putting in more or less input, are considered to be underpaid and overpaid (Greenberg, 1988). Such conditions have negatively affected work performance and outcome. Rewards can take the form of office and workplace characteristics. It was argued that this ties in with the decline in older and tenured workers training ability and work output. After placing workers in new environments, both deprived and luxurious, it was found that work performance had returned to normal after two weeks of reassignment. Thus, in most cases, environment does not factor (Greenberg, 1988).
Lack of research has been conducted regarding the employer’s decision on amount of payment received by a worker in relation to their amount of work. What causes these decisions and what affects them? The central question within this study is should employers compensate their workers based on their quality of work and open-mindedness instead of their experience, which poses as an obstacle. 
Keywords: Establishment, Slope, Technology, Rewards, Input
Methodology
Participants of the study are employees that work within several departments at a local grocery stores and met the qualifications for one of two groups. Group A are workers who have been employed 2 to 5 years. Group B are workers who have been employed for 10 or more years. Subject A of Group A is a 19-year-old male who has been employed for 3 years. While Subject B is a 29-year-old female that has been employed for 4 years. Subject A from Group B is a 49-year-old male that has been employed for 11 years. Subject B is a 64-year-old subject and has been employed for 25 years. The subjects were selected as the sample for the groups based from their tenure, work ethic in the workplace, and sex. The procedures were completed as stated to avoid any biased or skewed results.
I chose to conduct interviews of each subject to collect opinions and data of people in the grocery store. Interviews are a type of ethnographic research. Ethnography is the study of people in their environment and culture. They will produce open-ended questions with longer answers compared to a survey or questionnaire. Also, interviews produce a seamlessly endless amount or responses and lets you get a true idea for what the interviewee feels. Responses can then be turned into unique follow-up questions and lead to more interesting sides of an argument. The intended outcome of this strategy is to gain an insight of working people’s through their answers and their emotions toward topics. These will help analyze and discuss data collected from the groups. 
Before interviewing, I composed a list of standard questions that could be expanded upon based on their responses. To perform the research, I traveled to the grocery store when my selected subjects were scheduled to work. I had individual interviews with each subject and gained their consent to audio record the session. We sat in a small office and spoke for about 10 minutes regarding their work ethic and feelings. The opportunity to expand upon their thoughts was also given. The types of data to be collected through these interviews were both ethnographic and observational.
The collected data will be analyzed by means of coding, an important data analysis procedure. The data will be organized and sorted into similar groups such as skills and concerns within the workplace. Then, each group will be labeled and assorted in a methodical arrangement that may aid in identifying patterns or themes. Finally, any comparisons and differences will be identified. Any thoughts and ideas during analyzing will be noted to help. The results will then be presented and later discussed in a different section.
Results
	Every interviewee agreed that the nature of the work and the departments in which they work should play a rule in an employee’s compensation. According to the subjects, the most difficult tasks include interaction with the customers. Roughly 50% of the subjects felt underpaid at some point in the recent past. Another 50% said the current job they have is only temporary and is not their career, the other 50% depend on their job as their only source of income. Although there were only four interviewed subjects, the mean age of the group was 40.25 years old.
	It was also commonly stated that higher pay does affect one’s work ethic, but after time, can return to normal. 100% of the subjects said they felt frustrated while at work.  The analysis of changes in data among tenure, job position, etc. were sorted by coding techniques for each interviewee separately. Satisfaction within the job should and does correlate with pay rate in many instances, but all the subjects were pleased with their job even while feeling undercompensated. Therefore, satisfaction towards the job will now be overlooked.
	The final question regarding whether compensation should be decided by responsibilities or tenured formed different answers when asked to each subject group. The different responses all claimed that tenure should not be considered, unless the requirement for all tasks have been met. However, one participant (25%) emphasized that responsibilities is not the same as abilities. The attempt to get responses based on tenure from the more-experienced group was failed, and succeeded better with the less-experienced group. The less-experienced group emphasized that responsibilities being completed should determine pay much more than time spent with an employer.
	Each of the participants in the least-experienced group work in three or more different departments/positions. However, each participant in the tenured group worked in only one or two departments. As expected, the average years spent with the company was much higher in the tenured group than the less experienced group (18 years > 3.5 years). This link between years employed and departments worked should suggest (but do not validate) that pay rate should be calculated through completion of responsibilities. Further discussion of these results will appear in the discussion section.

References
Bălaş-Timar, D. (n.d.). The dynamic relationship between aging and job performance – A case study. Retrieved October 08, 2017, from <http://www.uav.ro/jour/index.php/app/article/view/416/444>.
Greenberg, J. (1988). Equity and workplace status: A field experiment. Journal of Applied Psychology, 73(4), 606-613.
Kubeck, J. E., Delp, N. D., Haslett, T. K., & McDaniel, M. A. (1996). Does job-related training performance decline with age? [Abstract]. Psychology and Aging, 11(1), 92-107.
McEvoy, G. M., & Cascio, W. (1989). Cumulative evidence of the relationship between employee age and job performance. Journal of Applied Psychology. 74. 11-17. 10.1037/0021-9010.74.1.11.
Ng, T. W.H., & Feldman, D.C. (2008). "The relationship of age to ten dimensions of job performance." Journal of Applied Psychology 93.2, 392-423.

Transcripts of Interviews
Subject A of Group B:
Me:	Have you enjoyed your time with the company?
P:	Yes. I really like my coworkers and the nature of the work comes easy to me. They give us holidays bonuses and paid vacations.
Me:	Really? Does everyone receive these benefits?
P:	Yes, typically everyone does. However, I believe to receive the paid vacations you must work here for a certain amount of years. I have been past that mark for a few years now.
Me:	Would you say you have higher morale? How has it changed your work ethic?
P:	I think my morale is above average. I am happy with my current employer and I want to contribute to the success of the company. And I feel as if my work ethic has gotten stronger as I want to contribute to the company. In my case, the more I love my job, the less work feels like work.
Me:	Good, but are there any things about your employer that you don’t like?
P:	Nothing beyond the usual things that every person encounters. My boss and I are pretty good friends.
Me:	Well, how long have you been employed? And in what department(s)?
P:	I have been employed for 11 years. I tend to go back and forward between some departments.
Me:	Which departments exactly?
P:	I have been in the grocery department and in the service desk since I have been hired.
Me:	Good, and in the time that you have been in those departments, have you felt well paid? 
P:	I believe I was reasonably compensated for my work. 
Me:	How about compared to colleagues?
P:	I do not know how my colleagues are paid as that topic is taboo in the workplace.
Me:	Do you think there is a good reason why no one wants to talk about their pay?
P:	Most people just do not want to start arguments in the work place. And what someone makes is really no one else’s business.
Me:	Right, and do you feel you are compensated based on your abilities? 
P:	I do believe I was compensated based on my ability and experiences. 
Me:	Does this make you feel angry, happy, etc.? 
P:	Again, I feel it was fair compensation, so I would say happy, who doesn’t like extra money?
Me:	Exactly, but do you feel pressed to work harder knowing that a pay increase isn’t coming?
P:	No, if there isn't a compensation action coming, I am not motivated to work harder.
Me:	Don’t you feel as if you worked harder, maybe you would get a pay increase?
P:	I suppose, but those who have the power to give raises aren’t around much to see the work get done.
Me:	I see. What other feelings do you experience while working?
P:	I mostly feel a sense of family while at work. Many of my co-workers and I have worked together for 10+ years.  You form a relationship with those individuals as they feel like family members. But sometimes family can be frustrating.
Me:	And what kind of recognition do you prefer when receiving praise for good work? 
P:	When I am being rewarded, I would prefer financial compensation as a recognition of my work accomplishments. 
Me:	Least preferred? 
P:	My least preferred recognition is a "pat on the back" where there is no compensation or position growth.
Me:	Are you only answering these questions the way you are because you don’t want to offend anyone? Are you really being truthful?
P:	No, I am being truthful with my responses.
Me:	Good. But finally, do you believe employees should be compensated based on tenure or responsibility? 
P:	I believe they should be based on their responsibilities in the work place. 
Me:	Why so?
P:	Because the company puts individuals in their roles because they believe they can handle the responsibilities. If a person has extra responsibilities, they should be compensated for performing those responsibilities.  


Subject B of Group B:
Me:	Have you enjoyed your time with the company? 
J:	Yes, I have enjoyed the opportunities presented to me by my employer to do interesting		and challenging things.
Me: 	You said challenges. Do these overwhelm you or are they just something different to do?
J:	Very rarely does something stump me. It is basically work that no one else wants to do.
Me:	Would you say you have higher morale? How has it changed your work ethic? 
J:	My morale has diminished as the company I work for a has begun to fail, in my opinion. I would rate myself as an employee with a stronger-than-average work ethic. However, I am saddened to say that as the organization continues to change negatively, I am finding it harder and harder to staying motivated. 
Me:	Interesting. Is the company possibly failing due to the work of its employees?
J:	In a few cases I’m sure it does not help. But I more believe it is due to the newest owners and their doings.
Me:	Right, but how long have you been employed? And in what department(s)?
J:	I have been employed for about 25 years. I started out as a cashier long ago, but was moved into the service desk about 9 years ago.
Me:	Which would you say is harder?
J:	The service desk has its positives and negatives. When it is a slow work day, not much needs to be done. But when it’s a busy day or when it is close to holidays, you basically run from backup cashier to service desk all day.
Me:	I see. And through all of that have you felt well paid? How about compared to colleagues?
J:	Yes, I feel that I have been well paid compared to other individuals in the front-end department and those apart of other companies. However, I feel that compared to my colleagues in different departments, I am equally or slightly less compensated. I have had to work extra hard to be noticed by my boss.
Me:	Do you talk to others about their pay?
J:	Not really. It only comes up with close friends are when it’s a necessity to know.
Me:	Agreed, but you said other departments get paid more. And you work hard for your boss. Why is that you think?
J:	I think other departments get paid more based on the physical work they do. Which is not fair because there isn’t much heavy lifting involved when checking out the customers. With that in mind though, I know I am still compensated more than some in that position. And everyone wants to impress their boss, I just try to work harder for his acknowledgment.
Me:	Right. Do you feel you are compensated based on your ability? How does it make you feel?
J:	My situation is unique.  A few years ago, I would have said no, I was not being compensated for my abilities. And it did frustrate me greatly.  However, as the company has been significantly downsizing, those that were left go, were typically the under performers or the highly compensated. I have been able to move up within the organization and receive additional pay, however I also have assumed far more responsibility and workload than those that were left go and still make less than they did.
Me:	So those who worked the service desk before did not do as much work as you? And do you think there is a reason you were not a part of the downsizing?
J:	Those who previously worked the service desk did not help on register. But due the downsizing by the newest management staff, I was basically forced to do both. I think that ability to do more than one job saved me. Plus, I was not overpaid in my opinion.
Me:	Do you feel pressed to work harder knowing that a pay increase isn’t coming?
J:	Again, I am a unique employee. While pay is important, I am more driven to prove myself and my abilities to anyone that would care to notice. 
Me:	Great, and what other feelings do you experience while working?
J:	I often feel anger and frustration.
Me:	Any reasoning to that?
J:	Mostly because some coworkers do not work their best. Which is unacceptable when we are understaffed.
Me:	I have heard that before. Should you be paid more because of the extra slack you pick up?
J:	Absolutely.
Me:	What kind of recognition do you prefer when receiving praise for good work? Least preferred? 
J:	I am motivated by respect from my coworkers and employer. I do not like receiving gifts, other than money.
Me:	Are you only answering these questions the way you are because you don’t want to offend anyone? Are you really being truthful? 
J:	No, I am being 100% honest.
Me:	Do you believe employees should be compensated based on tenure or responsibility? Why? 
J:	Employees should be compensated based on abilities. It is important to understand that in some organizations, responsibility is NOT the same as abilities. It may be difficult to set baselines for various professional levels, but simply basing pay on time in job makes no sense to me. I want goals and opportunities to grow professionally and be compensated accordingly and a chance to be promoted because of my efforts. I don't feel that is possible when everyone is measured based on years of service.


Subject B of Group A:
Me:	Have you enjoyed your time with the company?
K:	My time with the company has been enjoyable compared to my last place of employment.
Me:	Good and would you say you have high morale? How has it changed your work ethic?
K:	I would say that I have a higher morale level than most. I am happier with this establishment and I get along either my coworkers and the management staff, in turn I am more driven to work and to do good work rather than doing mediocre and barely satisfactory work.
Me:	Do you feel that others feed off that enthusiasm?
K:	I have never thought about that, but I hope so. 
Me:	Right, and how long have you been employed? And in what department(s)?
K:	I have been employed since October 2013, so about 4 years. I work in the front-end department as a cashier, the grocery department as a stocker and blocker, and I am part of the tag team. 
Me:	Do those departments pose any obstacles to you?
K:	The work itself is not that hard to me. However, being on the tag team is tough. Every Wednesday, we must stay until midnight to get all the price tags switched. If they aren’t done, we keep going. The latest I have ever stayed was 2 AM.
Me:	Were you paid an overtime rate for staying that late?
K:	No. The tag shifts typically start at 6PM. Overtime is only given for working more than 8 hours.
Me:	I see, and in the whole time you have been employed, have you felt well paid? How about compared to colleagues?
K:	I do believe that I am well paid. In some cases, I make more than my coworkers who have been employed longer than I have.
Me:	Why do you think you make more than those who have worked longer than you?
K:	I hope it is because of the hard work I constantly put in. It is possible that they just are not working that hard.
Me:	True. And do you feel you are compensated based on your ability? 
K:	I do feel that I have been compensated for my abilities. 
Me:	How does that make you feel?
K:	Both happy and proud of all the hard work that I have put in.
Me:	I see. And do you ever feel pressed to work harder knowing that a pay increase isn’t coming?
K:	I do feel pressed to work harder when a pay increase is not upcoming. I try to work harder to get the attention of the management staff in hopes of obtaining a pay increase when it is possible.
Me:	Has management recognized your hard work lately in the form of a raise?
K:	Yes. When I joined the tag team a while ago I was given a minimal raise.
Me:	I see. What other feelings do you experience while working?
K:	While I am working, I sometimes feel frustration towards my coworkers when they do not do their job correctly, or do it half-heartedly. Sometimes I also feel angry towards the management staff when they do not schedule enough people to cover the shift properly.
Me:	Are shifts always understaffed?
K:	Not always, but they seem to do it at the most inconvenient times. Sometimes it is not their fault. Some days, multiple people will call off work for the day.
Me:	That’s unfortunate. But what kind of recognition do you prefer when receiving praise for good work? What about least preferred?
K:	I prefer to be rewarded with praise or monetarily. My least preferred type of recognition is one delivered in front of my coworkers.
Me:	So, you do not like when others know you are receiving a pay raise?
K:	No, I don’t like. It isn’t much of their business. But if they find out, they find out.
Me:	I see. Are you only answering these questions the way you are because you don’t want to offend any of your coworkers?
K:	No, I am answering these questions with my honest opinions.
Me:	Do you believe employees should be compensated based on tenure or responsibility? Why?
K:	I believe that employees should be compensated based off their responsibility. Just because an employee has been with the company longer than someone else does not mean that the work that they do is done more efficiently. A newer employee can have more skill and interact with the customers better than a tenured employee. Tenure does not ensure skill, speed, or hospitality. However, more responsibilities show that the employee is talented and has a good work ethic, and therefore deserves the higher pay.


Subject A of Group A:
Me:	Have you enjoyed your time with the company?
D:	For the most part, I have enjoyed the time with this store.
Me:	Good and would you say you have a high morale? And how has it changed your work ethic?
D:	I would say that I do have high morale, in comparison to some of my coworkers. I think that a happy and up-beat attitude makes the day more enjoyable and quicker for everyone. So, my work ethic has improved in my opinion.
Me:	Even better, and how long have you been employed? And in what department(s)?
D:	I have been employed for three years total and have worked in the front-end department, produce department, and the grocery department behind the scenes of the store.
Me:	Which department do you feel is the hardest in the store?
D:	Grocery department requires much more movement on the workers’ end, but you don’t talk to the customers much. Register can be tedious when it is busy, because it is your job to get the customers out of the store quickly, and you have to small talk to them. But I would think deli is the hardest. You must interact with the customers, slice their meats and cheeses, and clean up. 
Me:	I see. And in the time that you have been employed have you felt well paid? 
D:	In the beginning of my employment I felt as if I was underpaid, which is understandable. Then, shortly after my pay was around where I expected it to be, and was already more than my first job. 
Me:	Good and how about compared to colleagues?
D:	Well, I am aware that some of my coworkers that have not been employed longer than me, but do the same work, make more than I currently do. So that is frustrating at times.
Me:	Well do you feel you are compensated based on your ability? 
D:	I believe I am paid based on my age. I am not the oldest person in the workplace and I feel as if that plays a key factor in deciding my pay. Again, it angers me sometimes, but I do not let it get to me.
Me:	Right. And do you feel pressed to work harder knowing that a pay increase isn’t coming?
D:	When I come to work I try to put my best foot forward. I may as well work harder and help the day go by. However, if a raise is not in order, I am not as compelled to work my best on days that I do not want to. I do understand though that I must complete my tasks and do as I am told.
Me:	So, if you were paid more, you would concentrate on always working harder?
D:	I believe I would recognize that I am more fortunate than others, and to keep my raise, I would work harder and try not to let bad days get me down.
Me:	What other feelings do you experience while working?
D:	Somedays, working with people who have become my friends since my employment, can be exciting and fun. But, there is typically some frustration between a few coworkers and me. This can be from either lack of communication or failure to complete tasks that now must be finished by someone else.
Me:	So, some workers will not complete tasks, which gives you an extra responsibility?
D:	Yes. Since I am younger, I typically get closing shifts since no one else wants them. Any job or cleaning that is not done during the day is usually given to the closer to worry about.
Me:	Right. What kind of recognition do you prefer when you receive praise for good work? 
D:	I am okay with a “good job” from a manager or owner. That way I know what I am doing is not going unrecognized and that I am at least appreciated. At some point though, I would be expecting a bonus or raise. 
Me:	Then what is your least preferred form of praise?
D:	I do not believe there is any bad form of praise. It is better than nothing.
Me:	I see, but are you being truthful with these responses? Do you not want to offend anyone?
D:	I am being honest. Other’s opinions do not bother me much.
Me:	Great. Do you believe employees should be compensated based on tenure or responsibility? Why?
D:	I believe that employees should be paid based on their responsibility. As a worker that is underpaid for what he does, I understand how demoralizing it can be to see others get paid based on anything but that. Tenured workers can make more than everyone else, but I feel as if their work quality and qualifications should be better than the average employee who does the same work.
