
English 101
Hypocrisy 
	The act of falsely claiming moral standards or beliefs that don’t match up with the character of that person. In the history of the world, there have been a myriad of hypocrites, and some of the most prevalent hypocrites are those of religious back ground. In the Purple Hibiscus written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, a perfect example is foretold as a man of Catholic religion, Papa Eugene, has a complex relationship with his family. Though within the peaceful and loving teachings of a religion like Catholicism, you wouldn’t expect any form of complexity within a household. Sadly, in this story, family things go a little south. like this, lots of problems arise constant change of the Papa Eugene has had a complex relationship with his family because, Kambali and Jaja were becoming young adults, Papa is a narcissist, and Papa was abusive to his family.
	The age of rebellion and questioning of a teen became prevalent as Kambali and Jaja began to grow into their own people. One example showing that the two are growing involves their interaction with their family. As Kambali and Jaja began to meet and interact with the rest of their family, Aunt Ifeoma, her children, and Papa-Nnukwu, they were introduced to new things that their father had once said were evil and bad. In chapter six we see Kambali, Jaja, Aunt Ifeoma, and Papa-Nnukwu go to the traditional Aro festival, is was a “heathen festival” by Papa’s standards but Mama would allow them to go still. At the festival they experience and learn about the mmuo, or spirits. Papa-Nnukwu explain that women are told to look away from the powerful spirits. Jaja was told the spirits were to be seen as real entities, “Jaja, you’re not supposed to say there are people in there. Didn’t you know that? (87)”. Though Papa Eugene’s thought about this type of festival were negative though these types of events were a part of his childhood.
	Ever since the day the white man had came to Abba, Papa Eugene has put Catholicism over everything, it is the most important thing to him. Papa-Nnukwu sees the white man coming to his town as what made his so into who he is now. “The father and the son are equal…therefore Eugene can disregard me, because he thinks we are equal? (84)? From sun up to son down, Papa Eugene has his religion pour out of him, he does not do a single thing without it. This is a problem as events turn out. He cares less about his family and feels as though doing “good deeds” makes everything better. He does not see the things he does as bad, but as a important piece of his path. It is seen that when the rest of the family does not do things he says or do things that are “pagan” he is infuriated and emotional about it all. All the information that he is receiving comes from Father Benedict, Papa does no research, about his own religion. Papa is treated like a religious figure due to all the money he donates and the deeds he does, this plays a factor into why he wants everything to go his way. If things don’t he would begin to be violent.
	Christianity is a loving, and caring religion with Jesus as the God of its religion, now why is it that many see it necessary to involve violence and fear into making people conform to the religion? In the case of Papa Eugene, he has beaten his wife a myriad of times, some even to the extreme of Mama having a miscarriage. On Sunday the family were planning to go to mass earlier than usual, this is when Kambali has awoken and realized her period had started. Mama gave Kambali medicine for the cramps, but she had to eat food with the medicine, and the Eucharist fast states an hour of fasting before communion. Jaja made a bowl of corn flakes for her to eat, but soon after Papa walked in to see Kambali eating. In a furious voice he said, “Has the devil asked you all to go on errand for him?  Has the devil built a tent in my house? You sit there are watch her desecrate the Eucharistic fast, maka nnidi? (102)” he then proceeded to beat them all and repent the devil from them. Then after everything ended they all went to mass.
	Papa Eugene is a man of intertwined emotions that he has a hard time of expressing. His intentions are good, but his actions show otherwise. The complexity of his relationship with his family stimulate from his confusion and viewpoints on how everything should work. His ego plays into the solution as he is almost seen as a deity in his home town and church, he doesn’t truly understand the qualities of a man of God, who isn’t as selfish and wanting. At the same time, he isn’t allowing his children to grow into who they would like to, he wants to control every aspect of his families lives to that his “perfect” world can be made. His actions may be good, but behind closed doors he is seen different. How can a man be a true leader if he can’t lead his only family?
