Symbols in Purple Hibiscus

	 “Eugene refuses to allow his children to see their 'heathen' and 'idol-worshipping' grandfather.” (Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: Summary & Analysis).In Chimamanda Adichie's novel Purple Hibiscus: A Novel, there are many different character relationships that occur within the book. Many of which are related to family bonds and tie into religion. There are also various literary devices and themes Adichie uses within the book to help illustrate her story about growing up with an abusive parent. The biggest theme present in Purple Hibiscus is wanting to escaping abuse; this is shown through imagery, personification, and foreshadowing.
Imagery is used in Purple Hibiscus as a means to show the reader how the actions of an abusive parent can cause uncomfortable tension within the family. Adichie shows how intimidated the family can get when they encounter abuse and uses imagery to emphasize how much control an abusive parent can have over his family making them want to break away from the abuse.  For example when Kambili does not come out top of her class she is not only disappointed by her inability to reach her goals but she is also scared Papa will be displeased 

										 2
with her. “My stomach was making sounds, hollow rumbling sounds that seemed too loud, that would not stop even when I sucked in my belly” (Adichie, 67).Adichie also used imagery to emphasize uncomfortable tension in the family. For example “We cleaned up the trickle of blood, which trailed away as if someone had carried a leaking jar of red watercolor all the way downstairs. Jaja scrubbed while I wiped. Mama did not come home that night, and Jaja and I had dinner alone. We did not talk about mama.”(56). 
	Personification is used throughout Purple Hibiscus to symbolize Kambili and Jaja’s bond, maturity and desire for freedom from Papa’s abuse. Every time Kambili starts to realize more about herself she spots a purple hibiscus. One could say the book is named Purple Hibiscus because it is about a girl's journey with her family and how she matures through it; coincidentally every time she takes the next step in maturing she spots a purple hibiscus. “Jaja’s defiance seemed to me now like Aunty Ifeoma’s experimental purple hibiscus: rare.” (Adichie, 30) Adichie illustrates how the hibiscus symbolize desire to be free from Papa. The purple hibiscus also symbolizes maturity and happiness because it is seen when the family has matured and Papa is no longer in the equation. 
I only know that , all of a sudden, I no longer smell the damp urine of the prison yard. We’ll plant new orange trees in Abba when we come back, and Jaja will plant purple hibiscus, too, and i’ll plant ixora so we can suck the juices of the flowers. I am laughing. I reach out and place my arm around Mama’s shoulder and she leans towards me and smiles(536). 


											 3
Mama's figurines personify the integrity of the family. When papa throws something at them and breaks the Mama’s figurines, she cleans her treasured figurine pieces with no complaints. This represents how Mama had watched Papa terrorize the family for so long in silence. 
Foreshadowing is also a strong literary device used by Adichie to show how Papa’s actions repeat causing the family to want to leave him. Papa breaking Mama’s figurines  would not be the only encounter within the book of him destroying something Mama cherished. For example Papa had beat Mama and caused her to have a miscarriage out of anger two times. “My blood finished on that floor even before he took me to St. Agnes. My doctor said there was nothing he could do to save it.”(Adichie, 444).“Her eyes were vacant, like the eyes of those mad people who wandered around the roadside garbage dumps in town, pulling grimey, torn canvas bags with their life fragments inside. “There was an accident, the baby is gone,” she said.”( 59). Foreshadowing also occurs from this event because Papa again injures the baby by breaking a table over Mama’s stomach while she’s pregnant. 
You know that small table where we keep the family bible, nne? Your father broke it on my belly. She sounded as if she were talking about somebody else, as if the table were not made of stable wood. “My blood finished on that floor even before he took me to St. Agnes. My doctor said there was nothing he could do to save it.(444)



										 4
The theme of wanting to escape abuse is illustrated well by Adeche through purple 
hibiscus. Foreshadowing is used to emphasize the repetition of abuse that occurs in the household. Imagery and personification is both used to send a deeper message to the reader and let them feel the story easier.
								
	










WORK CITED

1.	Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Chapel hill; Algonquin. 
2.	“Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: Summary & Analysis” Plot summary:http://study.com/academy/lesson/purple-hibiscus-by-chimamanda-ngozi-adichie-summary-analysis.html
