The River 
The river of time flows in merely one direction, with an overwhelming current that sweeps us all away and subjects us to its unopposable course. Time is a precious and pivotal factor that governs our day-to-day actions and influences the paths and voyages we ultimately choose to embark upon in our lives. A newly formulated test, the California High School Proficiency Examination (CHSPE), allows high school students to shave two entire years off of their high school curriculum, allowing them to walk away with a diploma by the end of their sophomore year. This new examination presents an exceptional opportunity for students that desire to catch a head start over their peers and begin pursuing a college degree early. High school teachers may even argue that all high school students should take this opportunity into consideration, solely due to the fact that it saves students such a significant amount of time; time that can potentially be applied more usefully elsewhere in our limited lifespan. Although the California High School Proficiency Examination may provide a great opportunity for many high school students that seek to get one step ahead in proceeding with their lives, in the long run, it is not beneficial.  Students would go into college unprepared to face the difficulties and stress accumulated through college-level courses, miss out on valuable high school experiences that they could never again get a chance to relive, and would overall be physically, mentally, and emotionally immature and burdened by such an early transition from a traditional high school classroom and social setting into a more institutionalized and university-centered lifestyle. 
All high school students are expected to complete a specific set of prerequisite classes that are required in order to graduate with a high school diploma in four years, but the California High School Proficiency Exam could change this traditional road map forever. This newly-formulated test will slowly begin to appeal to freshmen and sophomores that would prefer to leave high school for their own respective reasons. Students that decide to take this examination and are able to pass with a certain score will meet the requirements of a senior classman that has completed a traditional four years worth of high school classes. However, despite the perks that may come with exiting high school early, students won't be prepared to face the hardships and pressure posed by college-level courses. Graduating at such an early stage in one’s high school career would leave a person with an entire two years lack of schooling experience, necessary to prepare them for the dramatic shift into college. Alexander Hafner and Armin Stock, who were both former students at the University of Wuerzburg, wrote an article entitled “Stress Prevention Through a Time Management Training Intervention: An Experimental Study,” based on a study they performed into stress and its impact on the human body. Hafner and Stock’s main purpose behind this study was to “examine the effects of a short-term time management training programme on perceived control of time and perceived stress” (Hafner & Stock 1). This experiment was done by assigning two groups of college freshmen to different classes and time periods. The group of freshmen that were exposed to generally harder and earlier-scheduled classes came to be highly stressed out, but the other group of students that were given relatively easier and later classes didn’t feel pressured at all  (Hafner & Stock 1). This study is a perfect example of a control and constant experiment, emphasizing how first-year students should pace themselves and ease into the flow of college, primarily due to the fact that they aren’t used to enduring such stress and anxiety from classes that are much dissimilar to the high school classes they have been used to taking. Given these results, the California High School Proficiency Examination is just another stunt being pulled to rush high school students into college, and when these students do arrive, they will be overwhelmed and doomed for failure. They have not had enough time to adapt, and their young minds would be best suited to succeed in a high school classroom.
For most students, high school only lasts for four years and students that plan to trim two entire years off of this would be missing out on valuable experiences that they could never again get a chance to relive. High school itself has become a great opportunity for students to gain lifetime experiences with their friends and high school teachers, which they will remember forever throughout their entire life. Eventually, many students that chose to attend college early would regret their decision, due to the fact that they would miss out on a significant number of  high school experiences which could help them grow as young adults. What would become of exciting once-in-a-lifetime, high school only ventures such as Grad Nite at Disneyland or big dances like the junior/senior prom? Not only would these students miss out on such unique opportunities for bonding with peers, they would be missing out on vital educational information needed for college. Nancy J. Johnson and Cyndi Giorgis, two former English professors, wrote an article entitled “School Experiences,” which emphasized on the fact that no matter how old students are, they will still continue to take a numerous amount of experiences away from the educational system. “No matter the age, grade, or ability of students, there are myriad common experiences children share simply by attending school” (Johnson & Giorgis 17). This illustrates why students need to take their time in school before they move on into the real world because even if these students are taking effortless classes, they are still getting the best out of it. This impressive article also points out how students should remain patient throughout  their education, as achieving a good education is a long progress that requires tolerance and a lot of perseverance (Johnson & Giorgis 19). High school students that pass the California High School Proficiency Examination and move on to college-level courses usually don’t know what they are putting themselves into, and being lower classmen, have not acquired the proper counseling or advice on college applications, majors, courses, etc. that their upper-class senior counterparts receive. Students that remain in high school for all four years are usually ready for a new beginning in college and are already familiar with all the general education classes, due to the fact that they have already been introduced to these type of classes throughout high school. Overall, students that make the mistake of leaving high school will soon look back and regret on the fact that they missed out on so many remarkable events and learning experiences. 
Students that are still attending high school are mostly young adults and most of these teenagers still don't know what's best for them, so they end up making decisions that they regret later on in their future. This is why students that plan to avoid two entire years of high school for a head start in college would be unprepared on multiple physical and emotional/mental levels. Essentially, premature high school students just aren’t ready to transition  into college, a point justified by David Kipnis in his article, “Social Immaturity, Intellectual Ability, and Adjustive Behavior in College.” Kipnis is a distinguished university professor at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, who implemented an emphasis on how students behave in college and how that affects them throughout their future. He further points out how it all depends on the maturity levels of the students, due to the fact that students have to be serious and aware about what they are planning to accomplish in college (Kipnis 75). Kipnis also implemented a study in his article about how students with different mentalities have different outcomes in particular courses. Students that have a higher maturity levels are usually the ones that are getting their assignments done on time and are utilizing their time wisely, but students that have a lower levels of this are usually the ones procrastinating and dropping out of courses (Kipnis 80). Maturity levels present the student’s image, as students that have their priorities straight are ones that are succeeding at university standards. High school is meant to help students grow for the future and develop these traits for success, but if this guide is skipped, then students will be lost along the tour of college.
High school assists students in sustaining their own personal ethics due to the fact that principles are surely needed in achieving good grades. Mike Osheroff, who is a distinguished and well known author, wrote an article, “Personal Ethics,” on how people utilize their principles and rules through their daily lives. According to Osheroff, “each of us has a value system that we use to help decide the proper course of action in situations that affect other people” (Osheroff 1). Most people utilize their own ethics to work through their intense and worrisome lives, as for them, these factors are needed to keep them in-check and disciplined. For example, students that consistently utilize flashcards or study guides for their tests are considered as having personal ethics because they are utilized every time a test comes up for them. These values can’t be made up overnight, ast they have to be repeated a numerous amount of times to a point where it transforms into a principle that must be followed at all times. Most students acquire their ethics through high school because they stick to rules that actually work for them, and if students go into college without any of these personally, they will become disoriented. 
High school students are the ones that are usually complaining about schoolwork and their subject teachers, but have yet to experience the college-centered lifestyle. Students that pass the California High School Proficiency Examination plan to move onto college, but some of these students don’t even make it to college, due to the fact that they must start working minimum-wage jobs, the only ones they can acquire at this stage. Students tend to forget what a good college education can do for them and get blinded by the traditional pay, along with all the free time they get to enjoy their lives, and try their best to avoid looking at the big picture of their future. This concept is brought up in an article titled “The ‘desire for money:’ Aristotelian blind spot in the field of economics? A French heterodox point of view,” which is written by a well known psychologist, Richard Sobel. It states that “it is a question of demonstrating the fashion in which money, after being excluded from the real approach, returns in the baleful form of the desire for money” (Sobel 5). The desire for money never ends due to the fact that life is measured by the amount of money someone has made over their limited lifespan. Most students that leave high school after just two years start working part-time jobs which usually turn into fulltime jobs because they start seeing their paychecks stack up. Their goals and motivating factors wind into different paths and they start doubting their chosen plans because they begin to undervalue the route to a college degree. This article emphasizes people that get blindsided by the desire for money and how that causes them to become unaware of their present stance. People that become incognizant of their situation tend to give up in the future due to the fact that they end up with nothing but desires for money (Sobel 16). Essentially, humans are taught to create lust for money and most students only want to attain a college degree so they can make a lot of money in the future. This is why students must remain in high school for the sake of their future plans of attaining a college education. As long as students are in high school, they will be continuously reminded of the values and benefits of a college education, and this will also give them a motivating factor that could assist them throughout their journey. 	
High school teachers may argue that all high school students should take the California High School Proficiency Examination into consideration, for the reason that this opportunity could save students a significant amount of time that can be applied toward earning a degree, helping them gain an advantage over their peers. Although the CHSPE may provide a great opportunity for many high school students that desire to get a step ahead in proceeding with their lives, in the big picture, it is neither ideal nor beneficial due to the fact that students are being rushed to finish their education, one that they will most likely attain either way, rushed or not. Aside from this examination, they have plenty of other opportunities to get ahead of the game, such as by taking various Advanced Placement (AP) and/or International Baccalaureate (IB) courses, which most California high schools offer. These courses allow a student to retain their traditional high school setting, while learning college-level material, by allowing students to take examinations towards the end of each course in order to attempt to earn college credit. AP classes would also be a more economical alternative for students, as if one were to earn enough credit, once he or she did attend college after senior year, they could potentially be placed at sophomore-standing, and graduate a year early from college, saving parents an entire year’s worth of college tuition money. A distinguished author, E. Blanche Seyfert wrote an article titled “Getting Ahead,” about saving time and money, and in the beginning of her in-depth piece, she questions her audience through a rhetorical question, “everyone is interested in getting ahead, but the big problem that confronts us is: how can it be done?” (Seyfert 2). People tend to love and worship shortcuts, but that doesn’t mean that all shortcuts will guaranteedly help in the long run. Some shortcuts will be beneficial, but some will only have an impact lasting for a limited amount of time, and that's why students that make the decision of leaving high school should evaluate their options before firmly deciding on leaving. Seyfert makes a great emphasis on how people find shortcuts appealing and how all of us have a desire to get ahead in life, but at the end of the day, we must stop and think about our future.
In all, the following supporting materials prove why students shouldn’t take this newly formulated test (CHSPE), due to the fact that students would go into college unprepared. They will also miss out on valuable high school experiences and would overall be physically, mentally, and emotionally immature and burdened by such an early transition in adulthood. Students that decide to remain in high school for the entire process will be better prepared for future college-level courses due to the fact that these students will have a better understanding of general eid courses which will allow them to flow through their first two years of college. These students will enter college with a positive mentality which will give them a motivating factor that could help them through their college process. With all that students have to deal with through all their years of school, they should at least take their time through this process due to the fact that they should savor these years for their future. 



Works Cited
Häfner, Alexander, Stock, Armin, Pinneker, Lydia, and Ströhle, Sabine. "Stress Prevention 		Through a Time Management Training Intervention: An Experimental Study."			Educational Psychology 34.3 (2014): 403-16. Web.

Johnson, Nancy, and Cyndi Giorgis. "School Experiences." The Reading Teacher 56.1 (2002): 		93. Web.

Kipnis, David, and Clark, Kenneth E. "SOCIAL IMMATURITY, INTELLECTUAL ABILITY, 		AND ADJUSTIVE BEHAVIOR IN COLLEGE." Journal of Applied Psychology 52.1 		(1968): 71-80. Web.

Osheroff, Mike. "Personal Ethics." Strategic Finance 91.2 (2009): 21. Web.

Richard Sobel. "The ‘desire for money:’ Aristotelian blind spot in the field of economics? A 		French heterodox point of view." Journal of Philosophical Economics 2 (2013): Journal		 of Philosophical Economics, 01 May 2013, Issue 2. Web.

Seyfert, E. Blanche. "Getting Ahead." The American Journal of Nursing 22.2 (1921): 89. Web.