Project 2: Research Argument (Final Draft)
When students attend college, they expect to pay high tuition costs in order to attend classes. It's understandable, but what they shouldn’t expect is to pay over two hundred dollars in purchasing materials for each course. I wish to at least have the prices lowered on required college materials. College textbook prices have increased over the years and are costing students so much money. I don’t think that we should replace hard copy materials totally with electronic devices, but there are some positives and negatives to e-textbooks. Although, some scholars or teachers  might argue that students are welcome and encouraged to use e-textbooks on electronic devices in order to save money. While it's true that e-textbooks have some advantages over their hard copy counterparts, it's not the best option for most students as e-textbooks come with some difficulties and not all are open to electronic devices. Another argument would be that students shouldn’t care for high prices on college materials. “If these high priced materials are required and essential in order to achieve a good grade, then why should it matter?” That’s what the opposed scholars and teachers  would say. While these arguments have some good points, they’re not without flaws. I still stand on my statement that college materials should have lowered costs and students should not have to pay so much for what is required for classes.
	 Actually, high prices for college textbooks can and will affect the grades of the students. Those who don’t mind the high prices should mind that high priced materials could actually cost you not money, but your grade. Ethan Senack of The Student PIRGs.org, typed an article titled “Fixing the Broken Textbook Market,” which explains this in greater detail. In the aforementioned article, Senack and his colleagues conducted a survey in the fall of 2013. They surveyed about 2,039 from 150 different universities and questioned their purchase of required college textbooks. The outcome of said survey revealed that 65% of students refused to buy a textbook due to the high price. But, another survey was conducted to determine how much concern the students had in making such a decision. 38.6% were somewhat concerned, 55% were significantly concerned and about 6.4% weren’t concerned at all(Senack, 4). So, the students are knowingly not buying the required textbooks but they are also willingly accepting the risks. Later in the article, Senack provides more information on another survey they have conducted. As revealed, the cost of college textbooks can impact a student’s decision on which course to take for a semester. This survey provided that 52% of students weren’t impacted by college textbook prices in course selection. 16% were significantly affected and 32% were somewhat impacted by college textbook prices(Senack, 11). Senack stated that “Careful course selection is often necessary in order to yield the results that a student is seeking within the timeframe they are prepared to study. It is especially concerning that this process may be being undermined by high textbook costs” (Senack, 11). 
	While the high prices of college textbooks can affect students, it can also affect the federal and state government as well. The Scholarly Publishing Office of the University of Michigan provides more details in the matter. Specifically, the article “The Investigation into the Rising Cost of Textbooks” by Natsuko Nicholls. “The fact that textbooks now cost approximately $1,000 annually is a tremendous financial burden for many students and their families. At the same time, escalating educational costs (tuition and textbooks) have a negative impact on federal and state government spending as financial aid providers. As a result, both federal and state governments have taken action aiming to contain soaring textbook prices and to improve affordability” (Nicholls, 10). Fortunately, the House of Representatives were presented a bipartisan bill titled “ College Opportunity and Affordability Act” which was designed to bring down college textbook costs. The bill required publishers to provide pricing information to professors.The House passed the bill in February of 2008 and made it public law after the Senate’s approval in July 2008 and the Presidential signature in August of the same year. (10). Unfortunately, the bill did not improve the situation that much. Going back to Senack’s article,  it states that “ Over the past decade, textbook prices have increased by 82% - that’s an increase of three times the rate of inflation. For many students and families that are already struggling to afford college, $1,200 per year on textbooks is simply too much -- forcing them to incur more debt, work longer hours, or make choices that undermine academic progress.” (Senack, 07). 
	Of course students have already found ways to obtain their required textbooks for a cheaper price or sometimes even for free. But, these methods often involve electronic textbooks which have numerous advantages over their hard copy counterparts. There are those that might say “If students are having a hard time with the prices of textbooks, they are free to use the more affordable e-textbooks for their course.” It's because e-textbooks don’t equal appeal to everyone and the majority of students often find themselves having issues with the electronic devices. But, I do recognize some the advantages that the e-textbooks have over the hard copies. E-textbooks can be downloaded, you don’t have to carry a whole stack of books to each class, they can have web or multimedia tie-in, etc. But, the pricing is where things kind of get a turn for a debate. Of course we know the reputation that college textbooks have when it comes to prices but e-textbooks are whole different story. Aimee deNoyelles, John Raible, and Ryan Seilhamer submitted an article titled “Exploring Students' E-Textbook Practices in Higher Education” in which they conducted  a survey, at the University of Central Florida, as to why students prefer e-textbooks over written textbooks. This survey was conducted in over a two year term. “Lower cost remained the top factor influencing e-textbook adoption from 2012 to 2014 . To understand this factor more clearly, the research team asked 2014 participants about the ways in which they obtained e-textbooks. Of the respondents, 70 percent reported purchasing them from online retailers at least once; around half had rented instead of purchasing at least once; and 33 percent reported purchasing at the campus bookstore at least once” (deNoylles et al, paragraphs 19-20). Purchasing from online retailers and renting are two strategies that typically result in lower cost for the student, so these results were not surprising. The second most important factor influencing e-textbook adoption for students was convenience. The ability to access e-textbooks anywhere, to access e-textbooks offline, and to store many e-textbooks on one device influenced participants from both surveys . Note that in 2014 the percentages dropped slightly across the board, possibly suggesting that the factors do not have quite as much influence as they did two years earlier.
	So while e-textbooks have numerous advantages, it doesn’t mean they’ll be accepted by the majority of students across the country. Nicholas Carr submitted an article on RoughType.com, titled “E-books flunk an early test,” concerning a test conducted by seven different universities, including the University of Washington, to determine how well Amazon’s Kindle DX fulfills the needs of the students. At Washington, 39 graduate students were given Kindles and their progression was monitored by diary entries and interviews.(Carr, paragraph 3). However, the test did not prove fruitful as two-thirds of the students had abandoned the Kindle or were using it infrequently. The reason for this was due to “...hard-to-read charts, lack of support for color illustrations, inability to write notes directly on the text.” (paragraph 7). But, the article claims that it’s something that can be fixed. Then, another problem occurs that shows why the Kindle didn’t pass the test. “But a more fundamental problem for the students was the e-reader’s unsuitability for certain modes of reading and for shifting quickly between different modes. And because that problem is intrinsic to the nature of a screen-based reading device, it is going to be very difficult, if not impossible, to overcome entirely.” (paragraph 7). Meaning, the e-reader didn’t capture the suitability that the student’s were used to with a regular textbook. Each student likes to read in a different way and they sometimes like to switch between different modes of reading, but the Kindle couldn’t offer more than one mode of reading. 
	The opposition will say that e-textbooks offer more tools to help students analyze, highlight and take notes for their courses. Which I admit that it's true that e-textbooks offer more assistance in courses, but the fact that it’s on an electronic device is what leads to distractions. This is proven by the survey conducted by Chan Li, Felicia Poe, Michele Potter, Brian Quigley, and Jacqueline Wilson all who are affiliated with the University of California Libraries. This article is titled “UC Libraries Academic e-Book Usage Survey” and the question revolved around e-books. Pages 10-11 offers a graph that shows the conducted survey and results in undergraduate students using e-books less than graduate students. Out of 498 undergraduate students, 55% used the e-books in their academic work, while 39% said no and 5% were unsure. For graduate students, 67% used e-books, 29% said no and 4% weren’t sure. Then the survey question was asked to the undergraduate students,“When doing your academic work, do you generally prefer print books or e-books?” Undergraduate students indicated the highest preference for print books, followed by graduate students, faculty and lecturers, and postdoctoral researchers. The undergraduates who were asked for their preference between e-books and print textbooks gave their opinions. “Paper because it keeps me focused and away from distractions that may arise from computer usage.” (Undergraduate, Life & Health Sciences). (pg 11).  “If they were the same cost I would prefer the paper version because reading on the computer makes it harder for me to understand the information.” (Undergraduate, Arts & Humanities). (pg 11).
	Finally, I would like to discuss how effective the e-books are in comparison to the print books. The e-books may be technologically superior but that doesn’t mean they’re better to use in college courses. Cayley Reid’s article “e-Books and Print Books Can Have Different Affects on Literacy Comprehension,” states “As children begin reading or being exposed to reading, eBooks are a predominant tool for them to have access to because there is an increase in the child’s language and it strengthens their literacy development.  Electronic books will allow children to build their word recognition, reading comprehension, vocabulary, and phonological awareness, all which are essential to become successful readers. The focus on this literature review, shows how eBooks are compared with print books. Print books, even though vital for a child’s literacy growth, lack features that electronic books possess. In order for a parent to be able to successfully interact with their child in using the eBook, the parent must be fluently trained with the different mechanics and uses of the eBook.”  (Reid, 14). Simply put, this article is stating that adults can also benefit from learning how to use e-textbooks along with their children. Many scholars and professors usually claim that e-textbooks are more superior to hard copy materials due to their various uses in and out of the classroom. Well, another article by Jun Sun, Javier Flores and Jesus Tanguma says otherwise. “E-textbooks and Students’ Learning Experiences” offers clear details on how and why that better tools don’t make a better product. “The fact that students consider e-textbooks helpful does not directly improve students’ learning outcomes unless students make efforts in the learning process.” (Flores et al, 04). Meaning, just because e-textbooks are helpful or more convenient doesn’t necessarily mean it’s superior to the print textbooks. 
	I admit that e-textbooks have some positives over their hard copy counterparts but they are not without some level of faults as well. Devices are more prone to be stolen, they are fragile and they tend to have technical difficulties at the most inopportune times. Also, making a student not purchase a textbook due to the high price is also unfair. Students pay enough when it comes to housing or even having to drive to campus every day, but it’s still not enough as we must deal with the overpriced textbooks that we are required to have. The College Board estimates that the average student in this country spends around $1,200 a year on books and supplies. A single book can cost as much as $200. Between 2002 and 2013, the price of college textbooks rose 82 percent—nearly three times the rate of inflation, according to a recent study by the Government Accountability Office. So, instead of college textbooks decreasing, its in fact doing the opposite. Some might say that why don’t students rent their books from various websites, try to compare prices from Amazon and Chegg and so forth. Students have tried and they have found that there’s just about a $15-$20 difference in the websites. I mean, it's a good thing to save some amount of money but we should be saving even more than that. I don’t mean to blame anyone for the high prices of course materials, but I do wish that the costs could be lower. Some students are given less financial aid than others and they usually have to save what they can to pay off debt, pay for gas, and sometimes even housing if they wish to live on campus or an apartment. But since a single book can cost about $200 and that’s for one class. Imagine if that class has 3 books or if you're taking 5 classes a semester and each has 4 required materials that need to be purchased. There are some methods that I know of that can be applied to various universities around the nation. One method is the discounts through bookseller partnerships. Several universities around the country are now teaming up with national booksellers to offer discounts and price reductions to students. Purdue University at West Lafayette, for example, partnered with Amazon.com Inc. last year to give 30 percent discounts to its students on textbook rentals – the partnership includes Amazon drop-off and pickup locations on campus for book orders. Other schools include UC Davis, Texas Tech University and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, to name a few – have similar arrangements with the national bookseller. Also, there is another method that most students know about but don’t usually bother with. Students can use scholarship websites to obtain the extra money needed to purchase their textbooks. It is a simple solution but not every student gets the scholarship they wanted. In fact, Finaid.org reports that “...for 4 year college students "8.3% of undergraduate students received private scholarships worth $2,796 on average in 2007-08".   That means that 91.7% of undergraduates got no private scholarship money.  Very few students actually get academic scholarships.” While we can use these methods to lower the costs of class materials, the student themselves do have a choice of whether they want to keep their hard copy or switch over to e-textbooks.
Works Cited
Carbaugh, Robert, and Koushik Ghosh. "Are College Textbooks Priced Fairly?" Taylor and Francis Online. Challenge, 07 Dec. 2014. Web.
Carr, Nicholas. "Another Study Points to Advantages of Printed Textbooks." ROUGH TYPE. N.p., 20 Feb. 2013. Web.
Carr, Nicholas. "E-textbooks Flunk an Early Test." ROUGH TYPE. N.p., 20 Feb. 2013. Web.
DeNoyelles, Aimee, John Raible, and Ryan Seilhamer. "Exploring Students' E-Textbook Practices in Higher Education." EDUCAUSEreview. N.p., 06 July 2015. Web.
Flores, Javier, Jun Sun, and Jesus Tanguma. "E-Textbooks and Students’ Learning Experiences." Wiley Online Library. Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education, Jan. 2012. Web.
Grove, Allen. "Why Do College Textbooks Cost So Much Money?" ThoughtCo. N.p., 01 Jan. 2017. Web.
Li, Chan, Felicia Poe, Michele Potter, Brian Quigley, and Jacqueline Wilson. "UC Libraries Academic E-Book Usage Survey." Http://www.cdlib.org. University of California Libraries, May 2011. Web.
Nicholls, Natsuko Hayashi. "The Investigation into the Rising Cost of Textbooks." (2010): n. pag. Web.
Reid, Cayley. "EBooks and Print Books Can Have Different Affects on Literacy Comprehension." Http://fisherpub.sjfc.edu. Ed. Joellen Maples. N.p., May 2016. Web.
Senack, Ethan. "Report: Make Higher Education Affordable." Fixing the Broken Textbook Market | U.S. PIRG. The Student PIRGs, 27 Jan. 2014. Web.
