“Dark Factor” Summary
	In the article “Dark Factory,” Sheelah Kolhatcar addresses the issue of machinery and technology replacing humans in the workforce. Kolhatcar states that manufacturing jobs now account for a mere ten percent of the workforce of America. The former workers of these jobs are now displaced, forcing them to seek work in places of low pay and low benefits, such as fast food restaurants. This is causing a multitude of issues for the American workforce. Even fast food and jobs like it are being replaced with technology, displacing workers once again. Many companies, such as Google, Uber, and McDonald’s, are investing heavily in technology to perform human tasks. Even warehouse jobs, which once seemed safe from technological replacement, are being overtaken with machinery. Kolhatcar mentions that Amazon even bought an eight hundred million dollar robotics company called Kiva, and she states that these robots can “zoom around factory floors” and stack heavy loads much faster and higher than humans. While it seems to be a costly investment, Amazon is expected to save twenty-two million per year by introducing this machinery in a single warehouse, according to “Dark Factory.” However, this “advancement” pales in comparison to a company called Symbotic, a company located right outside of Boston that sells fully-automated warehouses. In these warehouses, the article states that there is no room for humans at all; they operate completely from machinery accomplishing tasks, once done by humans. The company’s C.E.O. says this allows for “huge flexibility” and he goes on to mention the large sums of money that can be saved by purchasing robotic “workers,” making them a better investment for company owners than employing actual human beings. A shift in a Symbotic warehouse would require only eight or nine people, a fraction of the number normally required to complete the work needed. This would allow for the few workers present to have a high increase in pay and benefits, all while saving companies millions of dollars, but costing average Americans their jobs. While Kolhatcar’s article details the many advantages of machinery and technology in the workforce, her words also hint at the ways it could be problematic, especially for those less powerful in the workforce. 
Definition and Explanation of Two Terms
	Two sociological terms applicable to the article “Dark Factory” are automation and capitalism. Automation is the process of machinery and technology replacing human labor.  With the increasing dependence and development of technology in the modern world, examples of automation are truly everywhere we look today. From robots who perform complex surgeries to machines who automatically fill drinks at fast food restaurants, automation is manifest across the globe, especially in the United States. Technology is replacing all types and levels of jobs, ranging from insignificant, low-skill tasks like flipping burgers to operating on a human body. Even simple, everyday tools can be examples of automation. Ice makers, automatic bill pay, and baby monitors are all ways technology takes on human roles, even in our personal lives in the quiet of our homes. Capitalism is another term that applies to Kolhatcar’s “Dark Factory.” Capitalism is a type of economic system that is formed based on market competition, ownership of private property, and the pursuit of profit. The United States is an example of a capitalistic society; stockholders own portions of companies, and company owners make large sums of money by keeping a surplus of the income generated by the economy. There are many other examples of capitalistic economic systems worldwide, including Hong Kong, Chile, Canada, and the United Kingdom. There are twenty one other nations considered to be capitalistic, including the United States.
Application of Terms to “Dark Factory”
	Both automation and capitalism help to make sense of Kolhatcar’s article. Automation comprises the entire article; its focus is totally on the replacing of human labor with technology and machines. This term explains how companies mentioned throughout the article are running with few humans. One example of automation included by Kolhatcar is the investment in autonomous driving technology by Google and Uber. Cars will be able to self-operate instead of requiring a human to guide them. Another example found in the article is a New York construction firm that invented a laser-guided brick laying system that can lay double the number of bricks as an average mason per day. Capitalism is another term of which many examples can be seen. Since capitalism seeks profit for the business owner or C.E.O., it makes sense for such people to fully automate their companies; it gains more profit for owners. The hunger for profit brought about by capitalism explains why owners have little or no regard for the lower or middle class people suffering from machinery overtaking their jobs. Symbotic’s C.E.O. is an example of the way capitalism affects the article; he is focused only on the financial gain of himself and never mentions the loss that might occur for others. Another example is Amazon’s plans to automate much of the work done by their ninety-thousand employees. Amazon seems to have no regard or plans for the employees that will be left jobless because of this. Instead, they seek to benefit the people in highest power in the company and gain more profit for those individuals.