Purple Hibiscus was published in 2003 but the setting was taking place in 1990’s in Nigeria. As the narrator who perspective of the novel was being told was Kambili Achike a 15 year old girl. Why force somebody to do something that they don’t want to do?  Would you hurt your kids mentally to do things that you wanted to do or what you did?  However in the book called Purple Hibiscus ,  Eugene the father of Kambili, and jaja, he was a father who wanted you to do something exactly he want you to do. In Purple Hibiscus  the author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s illustrates imagery,

Eugene known as Papa was very abusive towards his family on certain things that happened in his household. Papa was very controlling and didn’t want anything to change.” Kambili is in her room studying the Bible when she hears loud thuds coming from her parents’ room...Usually the noises end by the time she reaches twenty.”
This shows how papa was always having his kids reading the bible also studying the Bible when they didn't want to but they didn’t have a choice. Eugene was very strict about his kids and his religion.” At Mass on Sunday, Papa makes his family stay in church after the service so that they can recite sixteen novenas for Mama’s forgiveness... Mama would need to be forgiven for”. This shows how Eugene was keeping his kids after service for a his wife forgiveness of being pregnant.
 Eugenes was a kind of father who would rain his religious on his kids and wife about being sinful  of the things he wanted them to do. 

Eugene was also showing violence with his love ones.”After lunch, Kambili is in her room studying the Bible when she hears loud thuds coming from her parents’ room...her father leaves his room with Mama slung over his shoulder...Jaja notices there is blood on the floor. They scrub the floor clean”. This shows how Eugene has been hitting on his wife multiple times and the kids can hear that going while they trying to study their bible. Eugene was the type to abuse you if you're not following religion rule if he feel like the kids not doing that he kind of punish them. “She climbs into the tub and he pours boiling water onto her feet from a teapot… just walk into sin. If she does, she burns her feet. Kambili cries and screams I’m sorry. She is afraid to move even after the water stops running. This shows how Eugene would hurt his kids by thinking they not doing the right thing in there life so he will burn their feet or hands to prevent them from sinning again. Eugene was doing things to his kids like the same way his father did him because of their religion they believe in now Eugene is forcing his kids and wife to  follow his religion footstep and stop sinning which they are not doing.


Eugene was a father that forced his kids to study the Bible or they gonna be sinning their whole life that he thinks, Eugene father who did the same thing to him when he was Jaja and Kambili age religion abuse his kids.However Eugene's was a family man who took twist turn with their family problems.  Eugenes also was illustrating domestic violence to his wife he beated her so bad that there was blood on the floor and she lost her baby, Eugene forced his family to stay after service so his wife can ask forgiveness of what she didn’t plan to do.
