Food Waste 
	Due to the high standards stores place on produce so that it can be sold in stores tons of commodities are wasted annually. “1-30% of food in a field is thrown away due to the imperfections such as discoloration, misshapen or size of the product” (Aubrey 1). These  things in no way affect the taste of the product yet we refuse to use this so it becomes waste. This is a remarkable tragedy due to “1 in 6 people in America are going hungry” (11 Facts About Hunger 1). We are such a rich, plentiful nation that hunger should not be a problem we face, unfortunately we do. As a nation we cannot sit by and let this happen when the solution is so obvious; this food that is supposed to be thrown away should be put in a food bank to be distributed to people in need. Farmers would have an incentive to do this because they would now have a large tax write off due to the large donations given away. “Over five million dollars is donated to the community food bank” (Financials), with some of this money we can easily set up a program to donate these crops. The Community Food Bank, being a multi-million dollar organization, has extensive facilities to store and distribute food. With this in mind, the most logical thing to do is set up this program through them since their background is far more extensive. As a group we have interviewed several local farmers, our student cupboard program at University as well as our Community Food Bank in Anytown to really get a better understanding of food waste near us as well as how they run. The Student Cupboard and the Community Food Bank are both organizations that run on donations so if farmers came together to donate fresh produce it would only be beneficial to them.
	 The article, “The Progressive Increase of Food Waste in America and Its Environmental Impact,” by Kevin D. Hall, et al. explains how the environment is affected by food waste due to methane and carbon dioxide emissions from decomposing food. America as a whole is worried we will run out of food and thinks of ways to increase agricultural production but little is said about the waste of food. The article then goes on to explain obesity and how this, over the last 30 years, has increased dramatically and how they calculate this by, “Quantifying the food intake underlying an observed change of body weight requires knowing the energy cost of tissue deposition and the increased cost of physical activity and metabolic rate with weight gain,” (Hall, et al.) Fresh water is a commodity that should not be wasted; however due to wasted food a quarter of freshwater is now being thrown away. We are not just wasting water, we also waste the gas to transport that food and energy and manpower to create this product and it is absolutely pointless. Over 300 million barrels of oil is wasted per year on food that is simply thrown away. Our group project goes over food waste at the farmers level, tons of edible food is thrown away annually due to the high standards stores place on food.
The United States of America is the third largest country in the world and it is also responsible for almost eleven percent of food production in the world. The only countries that have a higher rate of food production are India and China which means that these countries, including The United States, are expected to contribute for all over the world. This country as a whole is producing so much food for not only themselves but all over and forget to realize how much we literally throw away. Authors Dongyan Mua and Naomi Horowitz, who were both part of the School of Environmental and Sustainability Science, wrote an article titled “Environmental and economic analysis of an in-vessel food waste composting system at Kean University in the U.S.,” which is based on information that emphasizes on food waste and how it affects The United States. For instance, Dongyan Mua and Naomi Horowitz state that, “forty percent of food in the United States today goes uneaten…” and more than ninety five percent of food waste ends up in landfills” (Mua & Horowitz 4). This statement is quite eye opening, due to the fact that Americans are focused on the production aspect of everything that they tend to not realize how much waste happens right in our country. Most of the food that is being produced by The United States is going to the waste and this significant issue will only worsen if immediate actions are taken towards it. All this food waste is ending up in large landfills and America does not have enough space to be holding all of this garbage. Essentially, this wasted food can be put to a better use, for the reason that Mua and Horowitz emphasize on how more than nine million people die of hunger and hunger related diseases every single year (Mua & Horowitz 18).
	The food production in The United States has gone unseen; our government has not taken the initiative to prevent all of this waste or provided our society with a viable solution. Food waste doesn’t just affect our country but it affects all the countries that depend on us for food production. Two distinguished authors from The Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Michael E. Hickey and Gulnihal Ozbay wrote an article entitled “Food waste in the United States: A contributing factor toward environmental instability,” which emphasizes the food crises that the whole world is facing. This article begins with an introduction of the significant problem, “The demand for food and water must be met as the human population is expected to rise to nine billion people by the year 2050. With current food consumption and trends, this means we must increase overall food production by over 70%” (Hickey & Ozbay 1). These numbers that are stated in this article are insane and is telling us as a whole that it is impossible to meet our needs for food production. Michael E. Hickey and Gulnihal Ozbay emphasis on the fact that this increase cannot be sustained and food prices cannot be afforded (Hickey & Ozbay 3). According to Michael E. Hickey and Gulnihal Ozbay, something must be done in order to stop this huge food crisis and this will only work if our nation could come together and raise awareness.
To elaborate further, the amount of people in the United States struggling to find a source of food they can eat is substantial. Food production companies are well aware of this and those companies that do throw away food due to small imperfections have tried to give it away to those less fortunate but this is harder than it seems. In a piece entitled, “Food Waste From Field To Table,” was written by the, Committee On Agriculture House Of Representatives displays the amount of food that is being wasted for no reason is astonishing as well as illustrate guidelines in which prohibit them from donating the food. They stated, “Many businesses, when given the opportunity to donate perfectly safe and wholesome food, are reluctant because of liability concerns” (H.O.R 2). This is extremely sad that due to all of the rules as well as regulations we are letting hundreds of people go hungry. Obviously something needs to change here and we cannot allow this to go on any longer. Their needs to be a call to action in which the liability concerns are tossed out of the law immediately implementing a drastic change to help those who could better utilize this foods. By changing the liability concerns for companies we can provide food to an enormous amount of people as have a substantial tax write off for companies willing to donate.   
	To continue on, there should be a point of emphasis placed on some how managing to make sure that the companies that reject certain foods, should lead to an agreement that would consist of those extra foods being given away whether it be given to a food bank or creating a complete new charitable organization; regardless of the two there should be a drastic change of how the United States handles all the extra food that can be used to significantly change the entirety of America's hunger population. The food that is going for literally nothing is incredible according to a piece titled, “Reducing food waste in food manufacturing companies,” written by Paola Garrone as well as Marco Melacini stated, “United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which stated that, every year, one third of the food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted the figures on wasted food speak loudly in favor of reducing food waste seen as one of the possible options to address this problem,” (Garrone & Melacini 5). This article identified the problem of how much food annually is wasted coming out to one third of entire food is thrown away to waste. That one third could immensely change the United States by providing that food to citizens will drastically reduce hunger statistics due to the fact those who can not afford to eat now will as well as once again utilize something that is not taking away from anyone. This piece also proposes a solution of how to fix the problem of wasting all this food is giving it to those who need it. 
This could bring an end to food insecurity. The authors, Craig Gundersen, and James P. 
Ziliak, of the article, “Food Insecurity and Health Outcomes”, studied and researched the health effects of food insecurity in families, and broke up the results into three categories: children, non senior adults, and seniors. According to this study, food insecurity is a major variable in many health problems such as, birth defects, anemia, mental health problems, depression, hypertension, limitations in daily activities, etc. The economy is also affected by this. As the authors puts it, “food insecurity and its health consequences present a serious challenge to policy makers, program administrators, and health care providers in the United States.” (Gunderson and Ziliak, Recommendations) As food insecurity rises, so do the health problems that come with it.
The only way to reduce these health issues is to reduce food insecurity and the way to do that is it to donate the food that does not meet the criteria of grocery stores. Even with programs such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or food stamps, food insecurity still prevails. The problem with SNAP is that members of Congress and the public health community impose many restrictions and argue to impose further restrictions (Gunderson and Ziliak, Recommendations). Because of the restrictions in purchasing certain food items and transaction costs, many people receiving SNAP are still food insecure. The benefit levels of SNAP are very restricted as well and many of times are not high enough to completely alleviate recipients of the insecurity. Again, about one in six people in America are food insecure. According to a study by Maria Virginia Vilariño, Carol Franco, and Caitlin Quarrington, “one-third of food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted globally,” (Vilariño, Franco, and Quarrington, Introduction and definitions). That one-third of food is lost for good when it could have been used to help feed those who are food insecure. That one-third could alleviate many of the families that suffer from food insecurity. 
As one can see food waste is a huge problem especially in the United States, farmers waste tons of food because the entire food chain is not flowing as it should. The article “Creating sustainable Fresh Food Supply Chains Through Waste Reduction” by authors Rokka Kaipa, Iska Dukovska-Popovska, and Lauri Loikkanen explains how farmers need to work well with whomever buys their product to sale at their own expense. Farmers are having an excess of food that not many are willing to buy from them because demand is not high; therefore they just go to waste because they are unable to sell them. Farmers should not grow too much of something if they know they will not be able to sell it, therefore the entire chain needs to work together by sharing information so that the farmer knows how much to grow or expects to sell. As of now the chain is not communicating well because “The average loss of food products over the whole chain from production to retail shelf and the consumer’s fridge is estimated to be 35%; in other words, one-third of the food produced for humans is wasted.” (P.2) It all starts with the growth of the crops, farmers need to be more cautious on how much they produce because if they produce an excess of something no one wants, that produce will be edible and go unused. Overall this article suggests that “Good communication and forecasting and working in partnership with suppliers could reduce costs and waste in the whole supply chain.” (P.4)
 	It may seem like an easy solution however there is no incentive for farmers to work with the food chain because they want to make as much money off their crops. However, our group believes that if farmers were to receive a tax cut by helping reduce food waste and donating it to those in need they would be willing to do it. Today, unfortunately no one wants to do anything if they don’t receive anything in return, farmers would be willing to donate food that usually would go to waste because they would gain something from it which would be a tax cut. This will make farmers be cautious of the food waste problem; this will also make them want to share information with their markets to work together and solve the issue that is not only farmers issue but stores and customers as well. There needs to be a program that will allow farmers and other companies that have good food go to waste each year work together to help those in need instead of making it seem as if the food is useless. 
 Overall, huge amounts of edible foods are going to waste for many different reasons because no one really cares if it's eaten or not. Many people die from hunger each day and to think of the tons of food that is gone to waste is shocking because this food could have saved those of lives. Farmers have dealt with this issue for many years now but they do nothing because of fear of being liable for bad food as well as not having a system in place for this donation process. However, with our solution they do, we believe that this will motivate many farmers help those in need and actually pay attention to how much food is going to waste each year that could be given to someone who needs it. Hopefully in the near future the entire food chain works together to help end this issue, Farmers are not the only problem here and if we look at food waste from every aspect we can cut back on all ends. This problem starts by having farmers help reduce the amount of food wasted but continues with stores and consumers but once they see the change in farmers if all goes well they will change too.
 













Works Cited

Dongyan Mu. "Environmental and Economic Analysis of an In-vessel Food Waste     
Composting System at Kean University in the U.S." Waste Management 59 (2017): 476-486. Web.

Garrone, Melacini, Perego, and Sert. "Reducing Food Waste in Food Manufacturing 
Companies." Journal of Cleaner Production 137 (2016): 1076-085. Web.

Gundersen, Craig, and James Ziliak. “Food Insecurity And Health Outcomes.” Health Affairs, 
vol. 34, no. 11, 2015, pp. 1830–1839.

Maria Virginia Vilariño, et al. “Food Loss and Waste Reduction as an Integral Part of a Circular 
Economy.” Frontiers in Environmental Science, vol. 5, 2017, pp. Frontiers in Environmental Science, 01 May 2017, Vol.5.

Michael Ehickey, and Gulnihal Eozbay. "Food Waste in the United States: A Contributing Factor 
toward Environmental Instability." Frontiers in Environmental Science 2 (2014): Frontiers in Environmental Science, 01 November 2014, Vol.2. Web.

Parsons, Russ. “California Farmers: How the State Feeds a Nation.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 12 Mar. 2014, www.latimes.com/food/dailydish/la-dd-calcook-california-its-whats-for-dinner-20140312-story.html.
Riikka Kaipia, Iskra Dukovska-Popovska, Lauri Loikkanen, (2013) "Creating sustainable fresh 
food supply chains through waste reduction", International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, Vol. 43 Issue: 3, pp.262-276, https://doi.org/10.1108/IJPDLM-11-2011-0200
The Progressive Increase of Food Waste in America and Its Environmental Impact." Plos ONE, vol. 4, no. 11, Nov. 2009, pp. 1-6. 

Representatives, House Of. “Food Waste from Field to Table.” US Government Publishing 
Office. (2016)