Psychology Is a Science
	Psychology is a major that falls under the College of Science and Math department and is impacted; but in many cases, there are students that do not see how this field of study fits under the category of science. When students think about a psychologist they picture a person with a notepad writing down their patient’s emotions, when in reality there is much more to it. In order for students to fully understand how psychology really works, they need to be interested in the science that is involved in this major. In fact, there are many careers that fall under this major, that all play a different role in science. The problem is that many students who pursue a career in psychology do not understand that there are many science components that go hand-in-hand with their future profession. This lack of knowledge can result in a unsatisfying future profession, when students realize that science plays a huge role in their job. For instance, psychology can  focus on elements of biology, physiology and some chemistry. Furthermore, depending on the profession that a student is planning to pursue there are different components of science that will help them prepare for their careers. Thus, students wanting to pursue a career in psychology should acknowledge that psychology really is a science and be more aware of the different aspects this major has to offer. 
 Jean Piaget explains in her article “What Is Psychology” that psychology is a natural science that is built upon many different branches of science (648). In fact, a common misconception that students have regarding psychology is that it is a form of counseling that disregards other key components of science such as: sociology, biology, physics, and behavioral science. A specific example would be someone who is studying to become a neuropsychologist that would have to have a extensive knowledge on neuroscience which is the study of the brain. Piaget continues by saying how perspectives on psychology have changed over the years due to the technological advancements and growing respectability of the field. For instance, a century ago a person with Dissociative identity disorder might have unjustly been accused of being “crazy” or “possessed by a demon” however, now society recognizes the reality of mental illnesses that are scientifically researched and validated. Piaget also defined psychology and the role that it plays within that specific field. What psychology is, according to Piaget, is a science that studies humans. This definition explains the process of the use of research. For instance, some science that is included in this major are statistics and empirical research. Empirical research is based on evidence from a hypothesis that can be tested by observing and experimenting if it works. Statistics on the other hand is a building block for effectively using empirical research. These are vital components of science in psychology because it is useful when observing and understanding human emotion and behavior to help patients that need the assistance. 
	If students were to select their profession as a neuropsychologist, the student, just by the name, can understand the aspects of science that will be put into it. In the article, “Psychology of Science as a New Subdiscipline in Psychology,” Gregory J. Feist addresses the evidence gathered from neuroscientific and clinical psychologies of science that show how psychology has become a psychological subdiscipline. The author explain how science is heavily involved in psychology when it comes to studying the thought and behavior of a human. If a student were to end up becoming a neuropsychologist, it is essential from them to know how the brain connects with human behavior. Feist even said that the reality of science is about understanding how the “physical, biological, and social world's work” (330). What this all basically stating is how psychology is a science because of the different research that is used. It also shows how there is more to psychology, that proves that it is a science and not just about sitting down and asking a patient how they are feeling.
	The many reasons why students do not agree that psychology falls under science is because there is no direct engagement by the student.  According to the article, “Psychology Is a Science: At Least Some Students Think So,” Jeffrey D. Holmes and Bernard C.Beings stated that most students are not interested in the scientific research. What Holmes and Beings discuss is how psychology majors are not interested in the scientific area of the field, simply because they do not find it useful. For instance, the authors stated that students believe that when it comes to systematic observations it is “unnecessary for understanding human behavior” (5). Since they have put this label on the observations they will have as psychologists, they have completely shut down the idea of declaring it a science in general and are avoiding to participate in any of the research. The only students that are able to appreciate psychology as a science are those who are interested in the activities that involve science.
	The authors went into detail of why students need to be aware of how their choice of major correspondences with science. They informed that one of their concerns is that some students wanting to become counselors, therapists or any other professionals that can be obtained with this major, might not value the science in psychology. With that said, it is essential for them to interact and take the time to learn more about what they are majoring in. What this article confirmed was that the students who complete “more coursework in psychology” will better understand and view psychology as a “scientific discipline than students who had completed fewer courses” (Holmes and Beings 7). They believe that students need to understand how psychology is a science and how they need to involve it more in their ”coursework and training” to know that it really is a science to enjoy it when they get a job after college (Holmes and Beings, 5).
 It would be a waste of time if students majoring in psychology are not willing to respect every aspect of it. Even Holmes and Beings stated that, “students and professionals will not voluntarily read and critique research” if they do not value and see it as a necessity as a background in their field (Holmes and Beings, 10). If students were to actually take their time to master the science of psychology, it will show them if it is right for them. It is better to gain a deep understanding in the scientific aspects of psychology instead of just recognizing the least “non-scientific” part of psychology. Appreciating and actually realizing what they are majoring in sooner will save them time when it comes to their future career, instead of later finding out that their choice of major did not meet their expectations.
	Psychology is not considered a science for many students. However, there is major evidence that proves why psychology is a considered a natural science because it is based on how humans think and what causes them to behave a certain way. It is impossible to view psychology as a non-science because it is a key element for many careers associated with psychology. This profession not only includes empirical research, which is a science, but it also brings the science that is a necessary to learn when it comes to connecting human behavior and emotion with how the brain functions. To live a successful life, one must love what they do, so if a student wants to major in psychology, he or she must appreciate the scientific components that go along with it. 

Work Cited
Feist, Gregory J. “Psychology of Science as a New Subdiscipline in Psychology.” Current 
Directions in Psychological Science, vol. 20, no. 5, 2011, pp. 330–334.
Holmes, Jeffrey D., and Beins, Bernard C. “Psychology Is a Science: At Least Some Students 
Think So.” Teaching of Psychology, vol. 36, no. 1, 2009, pp. 5–11.
Piaget, Jean, et al. “What Is Psychology?” American Psychologist, vol. 33, no. 7, 1978, pp. 
648–652.
