
Medical practitioners are imperative elements within our ever-advancing society. From teaching young and undeveloped minds to saving lives, these people uphold the foundations of our society. In specific, pediatricians are a special type of doctor that deal with the health and medical care of infants, children, and adolescents from birth, up to the age of twenty one. Pediatricians are a crucial aspect of the medical field, due to the fact that they deal with children that are still processing new knowledge and instruction. However, should more accountability be placed on these specialists when medical errors are made? What if they are told not to treat their patients by the parents/guardians for religious or alternative purposes, should they still be blamed for the outcome? Some preceding patients blame them for such results, claiming that pediatricians are given high incomes by the government and are the lone officers of their department, but this doesn’t replace the fact that they are humans too, and many people misconceive their salaries, which in reality, are actually compromised. Pediatricians should not be the ones to shun for undesirable medical outcomes or results, as they spend years on end training for the position and come from prestigious educational systems, being taught to listen and communicate with patients to the best of their ability, and if patients don’t want to follow the according line of treatment, then the doctor is helpless but to acknowledge the wishes of the patient. 						  
Doctors look to create a specific type of a relationship with their patients and all relationships work through communication. Pediatricians have to deal with children that are still very immature mentally and physically, so they have to take a patient approach towards them, with the treatment only being fulfilled if the parents/guardians work with, rather than against the doctor. Pediatricians should not be responsible for any unwanted medical consequences, due to the fact that they have no control over the patient and his/her legal guardians. Both the patient and parents/guardians must try their best to follow (or help follow) the expected treatment, as a doctor can only perform to his/her best ability when he/she is given the power to completely oversee the patient recovery process. Rajiv N Rimbal and Maria K Lapinski, who are both part of the World Health Organization and the Bulletin of the World Health Organization, wrote an article entitled “Why Health Communication is Important in Public health,” based upon the actual importance of communication. Rimbal and Lapinski both emphasize on the fact that everything works through communication, as “communication is at the heart of who we are as human beings. It is our way of exchanging information; it also signifies our symbolic capability” (Rimbal & Lapinski 2). Communication is the primary process of interaction that works through all human beings, and without it, we would feel lost and confused. It allows us to get familiar with each other and brings us to the common ground, which is usually not found through eyesight or any other sense that we are gifted with. The article also points out that there are three important intervention considerations that emerge from communication, the first being the actual realization that communication interferences do not fall into a social vacuum, the second being it is reasonable to expect discrepancies between messages disseminated and received, and lastly, the third being that communication is a dynamic process in which sources and receivers of information continuously interchange their roles and shifts (Rimbal & Lapinski 4). These three considerations that come up in communication emphasize on the significance of this process. Rimbal and Lapinski do a great job in pointing out the values of communication, proving why communication is so detrimental to our society. Without this cooperation, pediatricians won’t be able to approach the right treatment, and this will lead to increase confusion and the likelihood of mistakes being made will skyrocket. In the end, the pediatrician may have little to no control over the recovery of the actual patient themselves, unless they are authorized by the patient and his/her guardians to follow through with an appropriate plan of treatment, and in cases where they are not, they cannot be blamed for any unpleasant outcomes.
Doctors all around the world follow a tediously long and steady education process, which consumes a large chunk out of their limited lifespan. On average, it takes about fifteen years to become a medically-licensed doctor, and between twelve to fifteen years to become a pediatrician, and even this is still not guaranteed, for the reason that some students do not acquire admission into a postgraduate medical program. The process of becoming a pediatrician or any other type of medical specialist is no joke, due to the fact that whoever chooses to take this path must have a great work ethic and he or she must be extremely motivated to assist people.  Pediatricians are required to earn a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university, gain admission into and graduate from a medical school, earn a license in that particular field, and complete a pediatric residency. After years and years of constant studying and sleepless nights, pediatricians take this particular field for the good of their hearts and the desire to help others. Essentially, pediatricians should not be the ones to blame if things go sideways, for the reason that they are only there to try and help their patients get better in the first place, and their level of education only teaches them to do what's best for their patients. A distinguished author and reporter, Des Spence, wrote an article titled “The State of Education,” about how a good education can lead to many new opportunities and doorways. Spence emphasizes on the fact that doctors get one of the best educations to help the people around them, along with how a medical education is one of the biggest hardships in the educational system (Spence 4). Pediatricians are taught to be caring and giving so they can relate to young children, and most of them take this route for the reason that they have the passion and motivation to help the world through their field of work. Pediatricians should not be indicted for mistakes that they have no control over, as they are taught to work through a laid-out treatment plan that should be followed by the patient and parents/guardians. The education that pediatricians are given allows them to formulate a plan of treatment to improve the health of a patient, but from that point on the doctor can only do what he or she is taught to do, and constructing a barrier between the patient and guardians from the doctor does not help in this process.
Some preceding patients argue that specialists like pediatricians should have more accountability placed on them, even when they're instructed not to treat their patients by the parents or guardians for alternative purposes, being given high incomes by the government to perform their jobs as head commanders of their medical department. However, most medical field programs advise their students to drop out if they are doing it purely for the money, and students must have a desire to help the community in order to bypass the hardships that come up in the process of becoming a pediatrician. Pediatricians end up with a compromised base salaries, but usually that's never the main intent, as most enter this field out of the goodness of their hearts and compassion for helping people. A distinguished author, Terry Stancin, wrote an article titled “Psychologists and Pediatricians,” which explained how both psychologists and pediatricians are undervalued for their field of work. Stancin points out how their benefits and salaries are diminished by the government, along with how they get defamed for their significant work (Stancin 14). This article sheds light on how much we take these pediatricians for granted, and illuminates the true significance and impact of these unique individuals on our society. Overall, economical factors must be left out of this conversation entirely, and furthermore, one cannot condemn a pediatrician for any unfortunate aftermath in the treatment of a patient solely due to this.
Pediatricians are a crucial aspect of the medical field, as they deal with the health and medical care of future generations from the earliest stages of life. They deal with children that are still processing new knowledge and instruction, which requires a lot of patience and perseverance. They spend years on years dedicating themselves to the welfare of humanity in medical school, learning skills that help them accurately assess and treat various medical conditions, and through diligent communication and interaction, they bond with patients and their families. Simply put, one cannot rest the burden of an undesirable medical outcome over the head of a pediatrician, as they have been trained to and perform to the best of their ability.

 




Works Cited 
Rimal, Rajiv, and Maria Lapinski. "Why Health Communication Is Important in Public Health." 		World Health Organization. Bulletin of the World Health Organization 87.4 (2009): 		247-47a. Web.

Spence, Des. "The State of Education." BMJ : British Medical Journal 336.7634 (2008): 48. 		Web.

Stancin, Terry, Ellen C. Perrin, and Anderson, Norman B. "Psychologists and Pediatricians." 		American Psychologist 69.4 (2014): 332-43. Web.