Subject: StrengthsFinder vs CareerLeader

My top 5 strengths for my strength finder assessment are deliberate, individualization, analytical, achiever, and restorative. These strengths suite me quite well in addition to giving me a leg up in my planned career field of operations management. I think it is an effective combination because the strengths build off of each other.  For example, my deliberate strength, plays a part in my analytical strength. I don’t take action unless I have thoroughly researched the plan, but when I do take action, I execute it with precision. 
One of my key motivators from the CareerLeader assessment was positioning. This means I have a plan. This motivator fits in perfectly with my strengths assessment stated above. I am always thinking of my next move and where I should be to make the most impact.  
My bringing management structure skills, which are skills aiding in accomplishing concrete goals, really connect to my job matches. The skills that stand out to me are resilience, day-to-day responsibilities, and organizational priority. My job matches are project management, productivity and operations management, supply chain management, and human resource management. I had a match score of 96 out of 100 for each of the career paths. All job matches coincide with the skills listed above because they are skills you need to do the jobs effectively. 
One of my skills on the career leader assessment was ability to compromise. I believe that this goes with my restorative strength because I will do what needs to get done in order to solve a problem. I also scored very high in critical thinking, conformity with risk, flexibility and quantitative analysis. These skills match up with my analytical strength as I gather information to make a decision. 
Overall, I highly enjoyed the skills finder assessment. I think that it was a great assessment because I can take away from it five adjectives that completely describe myself. I can use my skills to talk about myself in a situation that warrants that and can easily add examples when needed. It was worth it at its price as well. However, I was not as pleased with the career leader assessment. For someone like me, who know what career path they want to take, it was frustrating to get a 30 dollar report that tells me that position would be a good fit for me. I could see how it is a sense of conformation, but I wasn’t looking for one. The assessments will be helpful in making academic and career decisions for my future in addition to job searches. Overall, I see the reasons for taking both assessments, personally I preferred the StrengthsFinder over the CareerLeader assessment.
