The American Dream Is Only a Dream 
In America, everyone strives to have the picture-perfect lifestyle. The picture-perfect lifestyle is referred to as the “American Dream”. The “American Dream” is a phrase used to capture the utopic ideas that suggest everyone in America should have an equal opportunity to achieve success and be capable to rise from any economic class to a higher one through hard work, determination, and initiative.  However, that’s not always the case.  The harsh reality is that there is a tremendous inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor. The top one percent has all control over power and wealth. Due to the inequality gap, the poor most likely will never be able to live their American dream for wealth no matter how hard they try because there is a lack of opportunities, politics and there are not enough unions for the poor. 
	In America, many believe that the poor have equal opportunities, however the poor are more at a disadvantage than anyone else in the U.S. In Alex Gibney’s film Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream - Why Poverty? Social phycologist Paul Piff says, “… The idea of the America Dream is that everyone’s got an equal opportunity. You just got to decide to play but in fact there are large groups of people that experience the game as unfair. The opportunities are not there, all the rules have been decided, the property has already been bought up and the money’s already in the hands of the other players.” (Gibney 5:45). This reveals how the wealthy already have the advantage of success over the poor. The wealthy buys all the buildings, accumulates way more money and leaves nothing for the poor to have. Alongside that, education is another disadvantage the poor unfortunately has. Education is the top requirement needed to succeed in life. The poor have unequal access to quality educational experiences. Some reasons may be because they are born into unjust environments and do not have the proper health care available to them. Without education, there are little to no jobs available. In the film Jane Mayer from The New Yorker stated “…If your poor enough and your schooling is bad enough, that you don’t really have an opportunity to compete.” (Gibney 36:01).  Therefore, the poor has no chance of achieving their American dream.
	Politics play a big role in stopping the poor from becoming wealthy. Political Scientist Jacob Hacker stated “This extraordinary acumination of wealthy on top isn’t just about hard work. It’s about wealthy interest using to political system to rig the rules in their favor… Those at the top have done well. They’ve invested in policies that are favorable to them and done even better and then they churned a lot of that money back into politics.” (Gibney 15:00). This shows how politics are not in favor of the poor. The rich and lobbyist influence politics to direct the poor’s attention off how they are making laws in the country today. Political leaders depend on the rich to get elected and stay in office. They would have lobbyist write laws to protect their wealth and power. The poor are being blindsided. They are being tricked with promises, while the rich are getting exactly what they want. With the greedy wealthy in charge of politics, the poor will never gain power or wealth. Wealth is being created while poverty is increasing. All income is going straight to the top 1 percent. That inequality gap between the wealthy and poor goes to show that the poor will always remain poor no matter how hard they try.
	The poor do not have unions to help them become wealthy. Unions are what the people speak up for their selves. Economic Policy Advisor Bruce Bartlett concluded “…the poor are not very well represented in pour system of government… one reason I think has a lot to do with the decline of the unions…the unions were the and guard in pushing for social legislation that would help the lower class in general. Unions are perhaps the only organizations with significant financial and political clout to actually represent the working-class.” (Gibney 48:41). This explains the importance of unions for the poor. The wealthy want to get rid of unions because they can negotiate. According to Ken Bernstein “Without unions, workers will lose many of the protections against abusive employers. Wages for all will be depressed, even as corporate profits soar. The American dream will be destroyed for millions. And we will have a government of the corporations, by the already powerful, for the wealthy. I think Lincoln and most of our other great presidents would be ashamed to see what is happening.”. (“No unions: Government by the rich, for the rich”). The poor need unions to speak up for them. Today, the poor cannot make it on their own. The American dream of wealth will never be granted if the wealthy gets rid of the unions. The loss of unions is what helps widen the gap between wealthy and poor.
Opponents of these views present several. Some may claim that through hard work everyone can make it no matter where you come from. Furthermore, they argue that the government and big businesses will help get everyone on their feet. 
However, these views can easily be refuted. According to Jared Bernstein and Ben Spielberg “As more of the benefits of growth flow to a narrower slice of households at the top of the wealth scale, it becomes increasingly more challenging for the majority on the wrong side of the inequality divide to make the investments in themselves, their children, and their neighborhoods that can foster their mobility.” (The poor are poor because they have the government and other higher powers working against them. The government has high tax percentages that affect the poor more than the wealthy. It does not matter how hard you work if you don’t have equal opportunity with your opponents you will never win. 

In conclusion the inequality gap causes the poor most likely will never be able to live their American dream for wealth no matter how hard they try. The poor are in a rigged government. There is no way for them to get out of the position they are in. Advocates for the poor making it are still blind to the wealthy’s tricks. Being poor leads you to having politics against you, lacks in opportunity and having no representation for yourself. Like the film said “As long as our political leaders depend on the rich to get elected and stay in office they will write laws to protect the castles of wealth and power. The only way to achieve the American dream is changing the government while still working hard.
	








Works Cited 

Gibney, Alex. “Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream - Why Poverty?” YouTube, 5 Jan. 2013, youtu.be/6niWzomA_So.

“The Poor Pay More in Taxes.” The Economic Populist, 16 Jan. 2015, www.economicpopulist.org/content/poor-pay-more-taxes-5660.
