
Summary of “Dark Factory”
Sheelah Kolhatkar’s article “Dark Factory” talks about the replacement of human jobs in the workforce with the use of technology in nearly every aspect. Kolhatkar states that manufacturing jobs account for only ten percent of the workforce now in America. She discusses this by showing many examples of technology replacing major jobs in the United States, especially with new technological advancements. For example, major companies such as Google, Amazon, Uber, Coca-cola, Pepsi, and even Mcdonalds have all started becoming technology dominated to help save them time and money. The companies are laying off people to be able to spend money on these new robots. Kothatkar shows how these robots can perform tasks many times more efficient, and faster than the average professional worker; thus making the worker less valuable. One example shown is laser bricklaying technology that can lay bricks up to two times faster the average worker. Amazon has already spent nearly a billion dollars to buy a robotics company, which appears to be extremely pricy but they will save a little more than twenty million dollars a year. Amazon currently supplies jobs to many people who load boxes and take supplies to and from different places, but soon even these jobs will be gone.Manufacturing jobs and even low skilled jobs like Mcdonalds are becoming more technological based to save them more money. Companies are planning to spend and invest millions, and perhaps billions of dollars on the new technology and robots that they will earn back within a short time. However, this comes at the price of workers losing their jobs and displacing them into lower wage and less beneficial jobs. 
Explanation of Two Sociological Terms
One term that is oftentimes used in sociology, that is also used in Kolhatkar’s article is Automation. Automation can be defined as the use of large automatic equipment in a system of manufacturing or another production process, often times replacing the human workforce. Automation in the real world is literally happening everywhere every single day. An easy example of automation in today’s world would be drink machines at Mcdonalds, or any other fast food restaurant. Drink machines are capable of moving a cup to whatever drink it needs to be filled with and then filling it to the top. All of this can happening without the help of a human being doing any of the work, thus replacing the human workforce altogether. Automation is not only seen in fast food restaurants, but it is seen in production factories, manufacturing, building, and every other possible industry in the world. Technology is advancing and becoming capable of replacing human workers because of the efficient success and quick productivity.
The second term that is often used in sociology that can be seen in  Kolhatkar’s article “Dark Factory” is underemployment. Underemployment by definition is a worker performing a job that is much lower than the skills, education, and ability that they possess. A great example of underemployment would be a professor who was a PhD in Mathematics getting laid off of his job and seeking another job as a Walmart bagger. This person is qualified and highly educated in mathematics and has a lot of training on the subject and could potentially work at a university and make good money. However, since the professor was laid off or could not find a job, then they would have to settle for a job that gives much less benefits, pays much less, and does not allow them to use all of their training or education. 
How Sociological Terms Apply to the Article
Automation is the first and most obvious sociological word found in Kolhatkar’s article. This is because the whole article is about technology in the workforce, specifically robots replacing the human workforce. The main company of the article Symbotic is a robot only company that is trying to replace all human workers. They are attempting to use automation in becoming a major company and save money by investing only in robots and not human workers. Symbotic was not the only company in Kolhatkar’s article that is seen using automation, Kolhatkar points out that Amazon, Google, Uber, Coca-Cola, and many other major stores are turning towards the technological and even robotic advances to help their companies save money in the long run and also to increase the productivity. For example, when the new laser brick layer that Kolhatkar talks about can lay two times as many bricks in a day than the average bricklayer, this is going to make other companies trend towards robots as well to try to keep up with the quicker pace. The second sociological term that can be seen in Kolhatkar’s article is underemployment. Underemployment in this article is a direct result of the first sociological term, automation. Because of the new robots taking place of the human workforce, workers that would typically do these jobs, and are trained in how to do them, will now be cut off and will have to seek jobs that are not as good and do not utilize them like they are capable of doing. This is becoming such a problem to the workforce that even the low-skilled jobs, such as truck driving as mentioned in Kolhatkar’s article,  are being taken over by machines and robots that people will have to search even lower for jobs, perhaps even jobs that are meant for a high school education level, but will now instead be performed by people who have a degree and a great deal of training.