Argumentative Assignment 
The major topic being argued in the episode was whether to send their son to a public school or another private school for getting put out of his private school for fighting a boy who took his chain.
The evidence the parents used to argue their positions were facts, their own experiences, and their opinions. The father didn’t want his son to go to a public school because he states blacks have always had it hard obtaining education. He used the example of the Brown vs. Board of Education to back up the study shown in 2014 that public schools were less integrated, more crowded, and more dangerous than it ever was before Martin Luther King Jr. was killed in 1968 which is why he put his children in private schools to obtain the best education possible and to feel safe. The mother wanted her son to go to a public school because she said she’s open minded to education and if she had the chance to go to a public school she would’ve went. The mother believed her son would be just fine, she didn’t think too deeply into the decision of sending him to a public school. The grandfather argued that his grandson should go to a public school because it’s free of cost, close to their house, and he says he went to a public school and turned out just fine.
The warrant that connects the claim to the support is that since none of the other private schools the father considered for his son accepted him they had no choice but to send him to a public school because he still had to get his education.
Pathos is used to appeal to each viewpoint of the argument and it strengthens the argument in my opinion. When the father used examples of how schools were segregated and made it hard for blacks to get an education this appealed to viewers emotions because of all the struggles blacks went through to get a decent education. When the grandfather gave his son that look in the episode when the father started to bring up how blacks had it hard to get an education, the look he gave him signaled that he knew his son was right about what he was saying.
The father made a more convincing position than the mother and grandfather. He gave more than one examples of why his son should not go to a public school and used more pathos than everybody else. In my opinion, I would have sent my child to a public school because I went to a public school and just because it is a private school doesn’t make it better than a public school which is stated in the Washington Post. Strauss, Valerie. “Are private schools better than public schools? New book says ‘no’.” The Washington Post, WP Company, 5 Nov. 2013, www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2013/11/05/are-private-schools-better-than-public-schools-new-book-says-no/?utm_term=.a465e524733b.
