
EH 203
Essay Two 

In most stories, when people are willing to give up their souls to the devil they are in need of something they feel will ultimately help them forever. Also when they ask for what they need, the consequences or aftermath of their decision seems null and void as long as they get their initial desire. In Christopher Marlowe’s, “The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus” readers can determine whether or not Doctor Faustus should be sentenced to eternal damnation or he should be held to a standard. There are several facts that come with making this decision and one important factor is Faustus’s beliefs. Many would argue because Faustus does not really believe in hell or heaven, his deal with the devil is null and void, therefore he should not be sent to hell at the end of the play, but there should be a consequence.
One thing about Doctor Faustus, he is very intelligent and he actually gave thought to other studies like religion which expresses "the reward of sin is death" before choosing magic (Marlowe, line 62). Faustus's reason for learning the secrets of magic is his enthusiasm to become all powerful and in control of all things physical and spiritual. While Faustus had the Good angel to represent whatever good he had inside, tell him "O Faustus, leave that execrable art" he ignored the warning (Marlowe, line 405). But by the good angel being present is a sign that there is a little wisdom left in him. Keeping in mind that if he had a Good angel there was also a Bad angel that encouraged the bad thoughts he already had. In a way Faustus’s thoughts about making a decision were unbalanced and already made. It would be very hard for the good to outweigh the bad. Readers would argue that Faustus was intelligent enough to make a good decision considering he was in fact a doctor. But instead when it was time for Doctor Faustus make up his mind there was nothing anyone could do to stop him. 
His motivations are solely personal and in total disregard to what may happen to anyone else. Faustus makes readers question his intelligence because he was given chance after chance to stop before he got too far ahead, but chose otherwise instead. Even when Mephistophilis told him "O, Faustus, leave these frivolous demands" as an example of what giving up his soul did to him (Marlowe, line 95). One thing that surprises readers is that Faustus never thought he about the repercussions after he made up his mind the first time. Sure he had the good and bad angel, but it never seemed like he would ever make the right decision. With Faustus being so smart any reader would believe he would make the right decision regardless of how much power he could receive. He only cared how he could benefit from his acquired strength. Regardless of who could be helped using the newly acquired powers Faustus had a mission to do what he wanted. 
At this point, no one or anything will stop Faustus from learning what it takes to become the most powerful magician. This also shows that when Faustus wants something he will stop at nothing to get what he wants. Readers learn early in the story that Faustus does not like to settle, but in this case he is willing to give up his soul even if that means eternal damnation. So when it came time for him to be dragged to hell, he decided it was acceptable to repent. "I would lift up my hands, but see they hold 'em, they hold 'em" (Marlowe, line 54-55). But in the many years Faustus had to repent he chose the day of, which makes his plea for justice seem like a lie. It makes me question whether he believes in heaven or if it is just a cry for help? Faustus isolates and sets himself up for failure because he realizes at the end of everything he made the wrong decision. Because many readers can argue Faustus knew right from wrong, it makes it easier for people or a jury to decide whether or not he deserves to go to hell. 
While Faustus does not necessarily deserve to go to heaven, many would argue that it is acceptable for other consequences to be carried out. Doctor Faustus made up his mind and accepted the terms and conditions of the agreement, but his belief in the aftermath were nonexistent. Some argue that hell would be too harsh of a penalty, but leaving him to think about his actions in Purgatory would be justifiable. For those that believe in Purgatory, many would agree to letting Faustus fulfill his punishment there. Purgatory is the intermediate place after death to cleanse one’s soul before going into heaven. This will give Faustus a final chance to determine what he believes before spending eternity in hell. Biblical scholars would agree that giving Faustus at least a final chance at redemption would show God’s mercy. Many would argue that he does or does not deserve to go to hell. But a very common and reasonable compromise would be to send him to Purgatory.









Works Cited
Marlowe, Christopher . The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus . Edited by Alexander Dyce, Pennsylvania State University, 1998, www.lem.seed.pr.gov.br/arquivos/File/livrosliteraturaingles/faustus.pdf.
