Discussion
The vital capacity (VC) is directly related to the height based on the study by John Hutchinson (Petty, 2002). That is because lung volume tends to be larger as height of the subjects is tall (Ota, 1959). Our results supported this expectation, because significant correlation between VC standing and height were determined, that is, as height increased there was a corresponding significant increase in VC. Our results were explained by one possible explanation, positive correlation between height and lung capacity (Ota, 1959). Nevertheless, the way to measure lung capacity and air volume were varied depending on the researchers. We suggested that the other parameter indicating lung volume should be used to examine its relation as our future study.

The data, which was about VC standing and heart beats /minutes indicated that the pulse rate was not related to the VC standing. There was no significant correlation between VC standing and heart beats /minutes, that is, the explanation for VC standing and heart beats /minutes could not found in the experiment. In terms of the heart failure, low VC is associated with development of congestive failure taking into account contributing factor including pulse rate (Kannel et al., 1974). It was possible that the other parameter such as smoking or athlete could be related to the relation between VC standing and heart beats /minutes. However, there were only 2 smokers in our experiments, that is, there were not enough data points to determine its relation. Also, the influence of postures on VC is examined in young adult humans (Appel et al., 1986). Our future study should be combine these factor.

The data, which was about VC standing and chest circumference indicated that the chest circumference was related to the VC standing. Our results supported the expectation, because there was a significant correlation between VC standing and chest circumference, that is, as chest circumference increased there was corresponding significant increase in VC. Our results were not explained by published finding, that is, the VC is not affected by circumference dimensions (Pavlica et al., 2010). The possible explanation was difference between each sexes. The VC is affected by the sex (Pavlica et al., 2010). The sex proportion of objects in our experiment was unbalanced (female = 71, male = 25). We suggested that the data points should be collected much more and the date points from each parameter should be balanced.
