#2: Analysis Essay 
The book “Purple Hibiscus “ novel of the month for September, is written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.  The main character kambali narrates the details of her corrupt childhood while describing the ill-treatment she and her family endured. Kambili's father is Eugene, a God loving priest, who feels strongly about his religion as well as his beliefs. As a result of disorder and disobedience, he disciplines his wife and children in a cruel manner as punishment for noncompliance to rules.Father Eugene’s relationship with his family is complex, he serves as a dictator in his home. Eugene is considered a dictator because he is mentally and physically abusive, unreasonably controlling, overly religious.

Through the course of the book, kambali tells tales of the violence and harshness inflicted upon herself, her brother Jaja, and mother Beatrice. Eugene wants absolute excellence from his children, and when he does not receive such it results in negative reinforcement. Chapter one opens the doors for the readers exposing the truth behind the Achike family. In the opening of chapter one the scene is set on Palm Sunday, where Jaja is being confronted for not participating in mass.  “ not receiving communion.“  (Ch.1 ). His father took that as an act of rebellion “not accepting the Host – the body of their Lord – is death.” Jaja did not seem phased by his father's statement, then replying, “Then I will die, papa”. As a result of this misfortune behavior, papa lashes out and launches a missile at Jaja out of rage.
        
Alongside physical abuse, the children suffer an emotional abuse. Kambali comes to the realization while watching her cousins play with their friends. Fathers abuse took a toll on the children's mental state while other children their age are free-spirited and strong-minded. While at aunty Ifeoma’s house Kambali and Jaja come to the conclusion that they live a hard life back home, and they are molded into what their father wants them to be. As aunty Ifeoma explains how she disciplines her children, Kambali notices a big difference in their parenting technique. 

“It was what Aunty Ifeoma did to my cousins, I realizing then, setting higher and higher jumps for them in the way she talked to them, in what she expected of them. She did it all the time believing they would scale the rod. And they did. It was different for Jaja and me. We did not scale the rod because we believed we could, we scaled it because we were terrified that we couldn’t.”(chp12)

Father Eugene is a strong believer in the Catholic church, so devoted that he speaks with a fake British accent around the other priest “Papa changed his accent when he spoke, sounding British, just as he did when he spoke to Father Benedict.”(chp4) Due to his devotion, he's cut all ties with his father because of his refusal to convert to the Catholic church.In the eyes of Eugene, papa Nnukwu is a “heathen”, and he is not allowed around the children unattended. On most occasions supervised visits last about fifteen minutes. Although his sister disagrees with his decisions regarding their father she is also a member of the Catholic church.

Although Papa Eugene is portrayed as a deviant, he is not all bad.Eugene simply wants his family to be as well as can be expected to be, on the richest path to God.Despite the fact that he loves his family unconditionally, he approaches everything in an exceptionally negative way which results in his family opposing him. Papa has many positive traditions and rituals with Kambali and Jaja. One of their rituals would be when mama makes tea for papa, and kambali take a sip out of drinks in which he calls a “love sip”. “I knew that when the tea burned my tongue, it burned Papa’s love into me.”(ch.8) The significance of the ritual is to bring the family closer together.
Eugene is considered a complex character because of the violent episode and his acts of kindness. Over the course of the book, Eugene displays violent characteristics as well as loving characteristics.Even though he is hard to the children, he equally phrases them and admits when they do well. In addition, he enforces his religion so strongly upon his family because he wants them to be saved.