     The Improper Use of Textbooks in the Classroom 
Although many schools use textbooks to guide our learning, statistics have pointed to low 
ranks in a few subjects nationally. This can be attributed to textbooks providing questionable 
support to students by teachers basing their materials off what is in the textbook. This is a huge 
flaw in the way we teach subjects like math, and science specifically, as it allows students who 
are insufficiently qualified to pass classes without the proper understanding. In the teaching 
community, these flaws go unnoticed as teachers go through lessons on lessons with some 
students not understanding what is happening, and professors go unaware of the problem since 
many students don’t ask for help. The Washington post’s article “Why textbooks don’t work and 
hurt schools” by Jay Mathews the argument is made that textbooks often hurt a majority of the 
classrooms they are used in. This then comes from textbooks complexity, and the difficulty they 
present of the average person in comprehending subjects. The evidence further suggests that they 
often present no effect to the class, and only when coherently combined with the material going 
on in class, can provide some help to those in the class who may be struggling. A good 
combination of textbook, to instructor teaching is hard to come by, and the reason why they are a 
good combination together(Mathews,1-3). The article provides the main flaw in teaching with a 
textbook, in that the book is not really structured around the course that the book is associated 
with. What this further annotates is the need for instructors to structure their learning style this 
does not represent the full extent to which is is needed as there is still further work that could be 
Last Name 2 
added to the success of the students which would be to help taper their teaching to the learning 
methods of the students, providing the much-needed interaction that can help stimulate a 
student's learning to push them to achieve a better understanding.  Textbooks can be attributed as 
more of a problem than a solution for the average student who doesn’t outstandingly excel since 
they usually benefit only the top students who understand everything, while giving students who 
have a difficult time understanding only more trouble understanding and forcing students to do 
whatever is necessary to pass the class. 
A number of students have argued that being taught through a textbook is a very 
unprepared manner in which to teach students. A study done by Malcolm Shield, and Shelley 
Dole in “Assessing the potential of mathematics textbooks to promote deep learning” began a 
study to assess the effectiveness of the use of textbooks to instruct. They began by testing five 
textbooks for set goals and found that they provided little help for the development of the set 
goals. The reasoning behind the argument is, because it is a very systematic process of 
instructing. (Shield, and Dole 184-190).  The problem with this is that it attempts to instruct 
every student in the same manner, which is just simply not possible as not every student is made 
to learn the same, since some people could be visual, hands-on, or example learners. In 
accordance with attempting to try to teach out of a textbook, the other problem posed is whether 
the textbook being used is a good book structured at instructing and not just a book about the 
material. This further supplies the reasoning that it is very difficult if not impossible to instruct 
different learners with the same teaching methods. Instructing, therefore has a very visible 
problem in the way some instructors are educating, as this method simply does not get the most 
out of the students. For this reason, it has been suggested that professors should revise the way 
Last Name 3 
they incorporate textbooks in the learning of the subject. More evidence has also suggested that 
running a class-based on a textbook is a questionable method to teach a class. 
Classrooms have become very textbook reliant “The textbook-driven curriculum” by 
Allan Ornstein offers a new view on what we mostly ignore in the classroom, the textbook. They 
argue that today's classes have become very driven by the textbook, and much of what goes on 
inside, and outside of the classroom is revolved around the textbook. This leads to a problem as 
the instructors follow a lesson plan where they go through the textbook, that may or may not be 
adequate to instruct all the students. Ornstein, further supports the argument that today’s 
textbook curriculum often fails, because they do not manage to reach every student in the best 
possible way they get the most out of their learning(Ornstein,). This coincides with the argument 
on why instructors should change the manner, in which they use textbooks. One change that 
needs to occur is for instructors to not base their classes around the textbooks, as not everyone 
learns the content the same, and does not properly prepare students. For instance, if they can 
learn at the quick pace of most classes then they would be better suited to learn through visuals 
only, however, if they do not respond to that method they will have a difficult time registering 
the content. This questionable use of textbooks could be held as suspect for the relatively low
grade turnouts in textbook driven courses. 
In the article “Instructional methods and languages in class: A comparison of two 
teaching approaches and two teaching languages in the field of intercultural learning” by Busse, 
Vera, and Krause, Ulrike-Marie, they argue the reasoning that it can be very beneficial for 
instructors to transition their teaching methods from one manner to another to allow students to 
better perform in the classroom. To set out and prove their hypothesis they went on to try and 
prove that students would better serve if they attempted to transition from the regular teaching 
Last Name 4 
norms. They held two groups in where one was a control group that would be instructed through 
regular manners such as a lesson followed by a textbook reading, and tests off that textbook, 
while the other group would participate in a more engaged practice. The results further proved 
that adjusting the instructor's teaching methods to the students, proved to be better for the 
students since the experimental group ended outperforming the control group(Ulrike, and Vera, ) 
This evidence from the experiment supports the argument that you cannot instruct every student, 
from the textbook curriculum, as it is too systematic in its approach, and is missing an element of 
creativity, that helps to engage the students more in what they can better succeed in the class. 
The reasoning as to why students perform badly is because a student cannot do their best if they 
do not form a deep connection with the subject. Therefore, it is best to teach in a manner that 
best allows the student to interact with the material, and keep their concentration on their work. 
As seen the use of textbooks to run a class comes with a plethora of problems. Despite 
the problems some teachers simply use the textbook to somewhat cut corners in preparing for the 
class. The problem with this comes with the fact that the use of a textbook is a quick run through 
of the material that leaves students suspect to understanding the material. This then leads to 
further problems, as it then leads to students having a difficult time, and instructors performing 
somewhat of a disappearing act in providing minimal or bad help. By this what I mean is that if 
the instructor basis all of their material off of a textbook, the students will have a harder time 
getting their questions answered since the instructors will offer help through the textbook, and 
then form somewhat of a disappearing act, by letting the textbook teach the students in a way, 
through having the students refer to it when they have a problem. When I speak of this I mean 
that the instructor somewhat expects the students to fully understand the material. This 
complicates things because of the fact that a number of instructors go at a very quick pace, and 
Last Name 5 
having to explain things multiple times would slow down the learning. Therefore, the smartest 
thing to do for instructors would seem to be to have them go through the textbook.  
Instructors have a difficult time helping students since they are sometimes panicked 
themselves, and rely on the textbook more. In the article “Smoke and Mirrors: Art Teacher as 
Magician” by Nane Hathaway argues that the role of teachers has somewhat been taken over by 
the textbook, in the way that today's teachers go through materials fairly quickly, and that then 
would obviously cause some students to end up with questions. However, due to a large amount 
of material needed to cover they can not afford to waste a day of instruction, so the instructors 
often refer students to what would be the textbook and the homework. Nevertheless, the book 
offers a reason why this method may not work, which is that instructors often fail in reassuring 
themselves that the textbook is capable to instruct the students where they may have missed, but 
this simply isn't the case as argued by Hathaway (Hathaway,5-16).  Overall it is easy to see why 
there are difficulties in learning can be attributed to some instructor’s ways of teaching and their 
co-dependence on the use of textbooks. A number of us students have all felt, lost when one of 
our instructors, goes through a lesson fast, and end up not understanding a thing. We then turn to 
either our textbook or to our teacher which are sometimes no help to us as teachers go off of the 
textbook, which is no help since the textbook is usually, insufficient in providing help to 
students.  
A possible solution would be to eliminate a textbook heavy classroom, by this I mean that 
classes could use a textbook, but not rely on the book to such an extent. This could help the 
instructor to better be able to instruct, while also being able to provide more content that is in 
tune with what is going on in the classroom. An instructor will be unable to properly instruct 
students to their full potential if they attempting to teach someone, with methods they are not 
Last Name 6 
comfortable with. Yet, if the instructor teaches around a student’s preferred methods of learning 
while using his techniques, while hand preparing the class with no textbook usage then it would 
result in better results for the class. I speak from experience as in my first semester of calculus 
two my instructor informed me that we did not need a textbook, but he still used it and referred 
to it constantly during the semester. My instructor does not plan a class because he claims he 
likes to do the work live in person. He then goes on to struggle to solve some problems, where 
the then refers to the book, which is usually no help since it's just overly complicated and no 
better than using the internet. Even so, this method is not that well received by me, and my peers 
as the instructor take up a large amount of time on one problem, since he does not have the steps 
planned out, and refers to a mediocre book. This then leaves us with half the lesson done for the 
day, and not a clue of what to do for the rest of the problems. The instructor then goes on to 
continue the rest of the week's lessons, leaving us confused and unprepared for the midterms to 
come. A possible solution to the problem could be thought of from having instructors plan their 
lessons according to them without the use of a textbook as then the students can relate the steps 
they did learn in class to in the work, and have a better chance of learning where they may be 
having problems. 
However, despite the facts presented some still argue that using a textbook, to base a 
class around is a good teaching method, that can produce good results from the students. One of 
the counter-arguments that a number of people argue is that basing a class around a textbook, 
makes the job easier, for the teachers. Which means that it could possibly make it easier for the 
teachers to teach, and therefore give them more time to help the students fine-tune, the grey areas 
in their learning. Another point to be made is that since instructors do not usually switch books 
very often, around every so many years, then they should be well prepared to make a class 
Last Name 7 
focused around the textbook that helps to instruct with accuracy.  The rebuttal used by many 
students could be that despite the abundant number time instructors may gain it doesn't make up 
for what they still won’t understand, what I mean by this is that all students are not taught the 
same, and may still not understand in the method the instructors are teaching. This will then lead 
to the same amount of understatement, that will produce slightly better results from teachers 
attempting to go through a few areas. What would help instead is if the instructor molded their 
teaching methods in a certain manner. While the answer to the problem may seem somewhat 
simple it is not as it seems since there is no manner in which all student can be taught the same. 
The reason why textbooks do not offer more productive results despite the instructor's, 
experience and use with them, is because not all students may resonate the same. 
In the article “Ditch that Textbook: Free Your Teaching and Revolutionize Your 
Classroom” by Kathleen, Gradel the argument that is made is that there is a new wave of 
teaching that is far more effective and productive that could better help students understanding of 
the material they study. The article offers their way of making the classroom more interactive 
through e-instructing as it serves to attain the student's full attention thereby registering more 
learning through this method. Another that method can serve as a very feasible and possible 
solution that can be done in the next couple of years, as it is a transition into something we have 
explored, however, have not fully integrated into the classroom(Gradel,85-86). The reason why 
this could be a productive fix to the issue is since we have some experience in making classroom 
learning more technologically based, the transition for the curriculum could be very cost 
effective in comparison to what it would have teachers in a sense work more by creating their 
own agenda’s and ways to exercise learning. While this may seem like it is very closely related 
to online learning, this is just form of gaining more interaction to stimulate the students learning. 
Last Name 8 
The evidence and clear arguments can easily call for a need to reform on the way we 
structure classes to include students to achieve interaction with the students. The current format 
has its flaws which range from the inability to systematically teach a class in the same way to 
hundreds of students. This manner does not work since not every student is made to learn the 
same, and cannot resonate with the way some teachers heavily use the book to base their 
teaching off.  The frustration that comes from the difficulty in not being able to understand the 
material, in turn, leads the student to questionable actions like copying the material off books, 
leading to students only cheating themselves in the process. This hurt both the instructor, and the 
student as the student ends up being unable to understand the material, and the instructor ends up 
being unable to further help the student. The reason why most instructors are unable to further 
help students is that they base their teaching off of the textbook they do not put forth their most 
effective way of teaching, and end up being of little help to the student since they are unable to 
fully teach in their preferred method. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Last Name 9 
 
               Works Cited  
 
Hathaway, Nane. "Smoke and Mirrors: Art Teacher as Magician." Art Education, vol. 66, no. 3,   
 May 2013, pp. 9-15. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=   
 true&db=ehh&AN=87024726&site=ehost-live.    
Gradel, Kathleen. "Ditch That Textbook: Free Your Teaching and Revolutionize Your Classroom."     
 Quarterly Review of Distance Education, vol. 18, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. 85-86. EBSCOhost,  
 search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=124810499&site=ehost-live. 
 
Busse, Vera, and Ulrike Marie Krause. “Instructional Methods and Languages in Class: A Comparison of 
 Two Teaching Approaches and Two Teaching Languages in the Field of Intercultural   
   Learning.” Learning and Instruction, Pergamon, 25 Jan. 2016,      
 www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959475216300068. 
Ornstein, Allan C. “The Textbook-Driven Curriculum.” Peabody Journal of Education, 30 Nov. 1993,  
 http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01619569409538778?journalCode=hpje20 
Mathews, Jay. “Why Textbooks Don’t Work and Hurt Schools.”Https://Www.washingtonpost.com, 25  
 Feb. 2012, www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/class-struggle/post/why-our-textbooks-dont-work/  
 2012/02/25/gIQAvI16ZR_blog.html?utm_term=.28e2ea1e8d48. 
Shield, Malcolm and Shelley Dole. "Assessing the Potential of Mathematics Textbooks to Promote Deep  
 Learning." Educational Studies in Mathematics, vol. 82, no. 2, Feb. 2013, pp. 183-199.  
 EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10649-012-9415-9.