What is sex?
Nowadays, young students are less prepared to regard their sex life, and most likely, they are unaware of the consequences that an active sex life brings. Perhaps, the students never had “the talk” with their parents or did not pay attention to their sex education instructor. Surely, there are many school systems that do not require a sex education class or have not trained personnel to teach such class.  Why? Because, sex is an uncomfortable topic to talk about, and even more when is taught to young people these days. The word sex alone makes people sway every time they hear it.
Many times, young people must listen to “the talk,” but it is so diminutive that leaves them craving for more information. Information that not even in school would get. Students know that sex is the intimate relationship between partners who love each other; however, the definition of sex differs from person to person. For some, sex is the act of love between a husband and a wife- in terms of religion- and should be performed only in those circumstances; for others, kissing and hugging also fall within the definition of sex.  Society cooperates with this misinterpretation by implying sexual scenes in movies, social media, and literature. This displays sex as a fantasy that makes the minds of a young people to wonder, leaving them confused. 
It is not probable that parents have “the talk” with their children before entering the teenage years, or that, if they did, the children will be prepared for the real life. Perhaps school directors suppose that young people have had the talk and can distinguish the consequences sexual intercourse brings, but who guarantees that? For this reason, the need for a sex education class is imminent. The young people are the new generation, and for that reason, they need to be prepared, that way they do not fall in the same mistakes many adults fell whenever they were young.
The student writing this essay has had many questions regarding sex. She did have a sex education class; however, the instructor was not qualified to teach the course. The instructor would skip sections, important sections, and talk rather about personal issues. Also, the instructor would avoid answering significant questions by saying, “you can find that in your book.” Nevertheless, the instructor would recommend the students to first talk with their partner on what contraceptive methods would like to use. In fact, many students did listened to that advice, but it did not answer to those questions wondering inside of the students’ heads in their high school career.
Sex education should be among the core courses taught in high school. It should have the same level of importance as a Mathematics class or even Science. The world needs better-prepared citizens in the future. The world needs citizens that would not be traumatized by the ghosts of their past.  The world needs citizens that would sit at their dinner table and talk to their children about how to prepare for the adult life and its responsibilities, and schools to not fear  teaching about the act of love that brings most people to live, which is sex.
