Subject: Informational Interview with Sam Doe

I conducted an informational interview over the phone with Sam Doe, a disaster services specialist/ assistant healthcare preparedness coordinator with medical center and the Eastern healthcare preparedness coalition. I asked Doe a series of question over the phone to inquire about disaster healthcare preparedness logistics. Doe obtained her degree in public policy and global heath from UNC Chapel Hill in May of 2015. I am interested in logistics so I chose to ask questions that focus on logistics. I chose this person as she is close in age.  
Why healthcare? 
I chose to interview someone in the healthcare field even though I am more interested in the aviation industry. I have always had a fascination with healthcare and it has always been in the back of my mind if I find aviation is not for me. I could also combine aviation and healthcare by getting involved with a medical air transport company such as Duke Life Flight. I have been more heavily perusing an internship or job in the aviation industry, however I am glad I took the time to talk to someone in the healthcare field who holds a position I can relate to my choice of major and could see myself doing one day.
What did I learn?
I began by asking what a typical day was like. Doe responded by saying she works with hospitals to their education needs are met. She oversees day to day operations and responds to common emergencies including power failures and water failures while preparing for less common emergencies such as hurricanes and hospital surge (too many patients not enough staff). 
I then began asking more logistics based questions. The example we used was a hurricane. I wondered how the logistical preparedness worked for her vs a more traditional preparedness, such as UPS during the Christmas season. She told me it’s a get ready and wait type of industry. When disaster strikes, cities have to come to them for help, they can’t self-deploy. Timing is really hard in this case. 
I asked Doe what she would have done differently for her education and career readiness. She told me that it should have been more of a focus to get a specific degree and not go to a big name school. She is effective in her job with the degree she has, but could have done better with a hospital preparedness concentration. She also wishes she took an EMT course since she too deploys with the team of volunteers. She suggested, if this was the field I wanted to enter, volunteering with a similar coalition in our area. Volunteering could lead to an internship. 
Next Steps
Although I have never conducted an informational interview before, I am glad I had this opportunity to get an understanding of what it entails. Informational interviewing seems to be an important skill to have, especially the newer you are in a career field. Talking to individuals with experience in the field is so beneficial. By conducting this interview, I received tips and tricks that can be applied to the rest of my college years and through entry level jobs. 
I will take the time to begin conducting more informational interviews. As a member of the Cameron Executive network, I am paired with a past executive of Lockheed Martin. Through him, I can contact a variety of people in aviation. I will next interview someone in the aviation industry such as a project manager or someone in materials acquisitions. This is my next step with informational interviewing.
