Excerpt: “Letter to My Daughter”: Pathos Emotional Appeal
	In the excerpt “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou she uses the rhetorical analysis device of pathos. Throughout her writing she grasps the reader by using pathos to connect to the audience on an emotional level. She shows us this when she talks with her father and when she avoids talking to her mother. 
	In Maya Angelou’s excerpt: “Letter to My Daughter” she uses pathos to connect the reader into the writing. An example of this is when she tells us about how she brought up being pregnant to her father. She does not just tell us that she is telling her father but rather she leads us into how she is going to tell her father. She does a really good job of this here: “After a salutary dinner celebrating his birthday, my graduation, and a national victory, I left a note on his pillow saying, ‘Dad, I am sorry to bring disgrace to the family, but I have to tell you that I am pregnant.’ I didn’t sleep that night. I heard my dad go to his room about 3:00 a.m. When he didn’t knock on my door immediately, I puzzled over whether he had seen and read the note. There would be no sleep for me that night (Angelou 6). She grabs the attention of the reader very well here. She shows that she is afraid of what is going to happen. She is unable to sleep that night because she is so anxious to find out what her father is going to say about her being pregnant. She shows us that she is afraid and uses that to influence our emotion while reading this piece of work. We have all been there before where we are so afraid of what might happen that we cannot sleep or do anything. Angelou connects us into this her writing by doing this. 
	Likewise in “Qualitative Researching with Text, Image, and Sound” edited by Martin W. Bauer and George Gaskell, a contributor Joan Leach discusses rhetorical analysis and the use of pathos in writing. In her writing she argues that pathos is needed in writing. It grabs the reader's attention and let them relate to the author on an emotional level. She argues that pathos along with logos and ethos are just the beginning to the rhetorical analysis in a paper. There are many things that come after but this gets the argument started and going. They grab the attention of the reader and connect them to the argument (Leach 214). Leach’s piece of writing is connected to Angelou’s in the sense that the argument of pathos in Leach’s writing backs up how Angelou uses pathos in her writing. Angelou uses pathos as a major part of her writing just like how Leach says it is a critical to use for your argument (Leach 214). 
	In my opinion I believe that using pathos is a great way to connect the reader to the argument. It lets the reader relate to the argument. An aspect that was not brought up in Leach’s writing that is a critical point in the argument of using pathos is that it lets readers make a connection to the reading and similar situations in their own lives. When the writer uses pathos the reader makes an emotional connection to the author. The reader can make a connection to their own personal life and events that have happened in their own lives. When readers can make connections to their own lives it gives them a better understanding of the argument and they understand what the author is trying to say better. They can make a personal connection to the argument and that gives them a better understanding of what the author is trying to convince them of. When readers cannot personally relate to the topic of the writing it is tough to keep them interested for the entirety of the argument. They will not be as interested in what the author is saying if they cannot relate. When the reader can relate to the author it makes them more likely to focus on what the author is saying. Authors need to try and use pathos more and more in their writings to grasp the reader's attention. When they do this the reader will be less likely to wander off in their own thoughts and they will not fully understand what the author is trying to say. Using pathos grasps the reader and gets them into the argument and let them come up with their own thoughts about what the author says. They can now provide some new insight to the discussion. If they do not connect to the author's work they will just read the work and not form their own thoughts on what is being presented to them. 
	In the excerpt Angelou uses the rhetorical device pathos to relate her work to the reader. She uses this rhetorical strategy when she talks about avoiding telling her mother that she is pregnant. She shows us that she is afraid to tell her mom that she is pregnant and waits to tell her until she is due in three weeks: “Nervous and frightened are not words which even barely describe how I was feeling. Before nightfall my pretty little mother walked into the house. She gave me a kiss then looked at me. ‘You’re more than any three weeks pregnant.’ I said, ‘No ma’am, I’m eight months and one week pregnant.’” (Angelou 6). Angelou brings the reader into the conversation when she talks about how “Nervous and frightened” are words that do not even come close to describing how afraid she was to face her mother. She uses emotions to involve the reader into the discussion. She captivates the reader by showing us how afraid she is to face her mother about her pregnancy. She uses emotions to captivate the reader and get them to understand what she was going through (Angelou 6). 
	Similarly in the work edited by Charles Bazerman and Paul Prior, “What writing does and how it does it: An introduction to analyzing texts and textual practices” the writer Jack Selzer talks about the use of pathos in rhetorical analysis. He says that using rhetorical develops the writer's argument. The use of different rhetorical devices is important to further the point being made. Selzer talks about how pathos is used as a persuasive part of the argument. Pathos: “for the persuasive reasons in an argument that derive from a community’s mostly deeply and fervently held values”. Here Selzer is saying that pathos is used for persuasion and captivates the reader. The emotion that is presented to the reader persuades the reader on what the author wants the reader to get from the topic they are talking about (Selzer 284). Selzer’s main argument in his writing is that the use of pathos in respect to rhetorical analysis is to persuade the reader. He does not talk about pathos being used as emotional appeal. He brings something new to think about. Using pathos are a way to persuade the reader with emotion. He does not specifically state this but we know that pathos is emotional appeal so with this knowledge that we have we know that the emotional appeal from the use of pathos in writings is used to persuade the reader according to Selzer. He says that pathos is persuading the reader to agree with the argument you are presenting by using emotions to captivate the reader (Selzer 284). 
	After comparing these two pieces of works I believe that pathos is a very good tool to use to further the topic that you are discussing and defending. Something that has not been mentioned when talking about pathos that I think is important is how you use it in your argument, knowing who your audience is, and knowing who you are writing for is a big factor of how to properly use pathos. To correctly use pathos and get an emotional draw from the reader you need to know what emotions to use. Different people will respond differently to what emotions you use. Some people will relate to certain emotions while others may not. People have different life experiences and relate to things differently. Everybody is different and will not be persuaded by the same emotions. Knowing the audience that you are writing for is very important in this aspect. If you write using pathos as your rhetorical analysis device for a certain group and another group reads your work they will not relate. They will get bored by what you are saying and they will not read the full argument and they will zone out. You need to make the emotions that you use universal or make them directed to the group who will be reading your work. This way the readers can make a personal connection to the work. They will be able to get a better understanding on the argument being made. They will have more to say about the work and will be able to come up with their own ideas better. When the argument is directed at the group that is reading your work it allows them to pay attention better. They will be invested in what is being said because they can make a connection better. When the reader is being persuaded with emotion and those emotions being used relate to them they have a better chance of understanding what the author is saying. They also will be able to make better connections to the argument if they can relate to what is being said. Using pathos is not just connecting with the author but with the reader and audience as well.If the author does not connection the reader to the work; the work is pointless. The reader will get nothing from the argument and will just read the work just to read the work. When the work lets them connect to what is being said there is a much better chance that the reader will absorb what the author is trying to say and the reader can develop their own argument even better. 
	Using pathos as a rhetorical analysis device allows the writer to use their feelings and emotions on a subject to make connections about what they are writing about and the audience. Maya Angelou did a great job doing this in her excerpt of “Letter to My Daughter”. She did an amazing job of grasping the audience and connecting how she was feeling and let the audience connect to her on an emotional level. She continually brought her feelings to the conversation and made a connection with the audience. The way that she used pathos was amazing; she made it universal and a way that her audience could relate to how she was feeling. She did not pigeonhole herself and make it to where her readers could not relate to her. She made sure to make her emotional appeal broad so that way more people could relate to her and make an emotional connection. The way that Angelou provided us with the use of pathos was amazing. She did not shove her emotions down the reader's throat. She used it at appropriate times and the right amount. She did not overuse it and she was not repetitive with it. She used other rhetorical analysis devices to mix it up but her use of pathos was very good. It felt as if you were apart of the story as the audience. Angelou made her emotional appeal so universal that her audience could relate. She made it so that different groups could relate. Her emotions were not just meant for one group but for many different groups. That is why she was able to connect to the audience on an emotional level so well. 







Works Cited 
Angelou, Maya. “Excerpt: Letter to My Daughter.” Signature, 1 January 2012, http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 17 September 2017. 
Leach, Joan. “Qualitative Researching with Text, Image, and Sound.” Sage Publications, 1 May 2000, books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=gnCEgt0VopkC&oi=fnd&pg=PA207&dq=info:3wY3NuxhyWAJ:scholar.google.com&ots=rFl7NyBUuo&sig=ul7IqosSrWkIHbuRClaU-NERzIA#v=onepage&q&f=false. Accessed 17 September 2017. 
Selzer, Jack. “What writing does and how it does it: An introduction to analyzing texts and textual practices.” Routledge, 26 May 2004, https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=87GRAgAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA279&dq=info:1x5o0FiF9s4J:scholar.google.com&ots=o_e6DoZmRJ&sig=f3UsHw41-_2G-D51WYQmw9NjyrU#v=onepage&q&f=false. Accessed 17 September 2017.
