
Summary of “Twilight of the Brands”
    James Surowiecki’s article “Twilight of the Brands” talks about the peak time of name brand good and materials. He discusses this by using a popular brand Lululemon Athletica. He begins his article by stating how this name brand was used and followed by people all over the world. However, their materials started becoming less popular due to their poor quality materials. Surowiecki claims this is due to the increase of internet access and the availability of online reviews. He also noted that this trend of name brand materials becoming less popular was not only applicable for Lululemon Athletica but for all companies: General Motors, Heinz ketchup. Consumers of these brands no longer want to pay for the over price materials when they can simply buy these goods from a different, and cheaper, company. Sites like TripAdvisor take away from major airline companies that raise their prices because customers now can look at online reviews by people in the real world to decide what they do and who to fly with Surowiecki says. This is paving way for companies that were once confined to a single community or country like Acer, to become a new global company for all. These new companies throughout the world are making prices level out, instead of one company dominating the market primarily on a name brand basis. More and more people are checking some sort of online review, as Surowiecki has shown, and this could potentially lead to prices becoming more and more stable, as well as dominant name brands becoming merely average brands throughout the market. Surowiecki also states for companies like Lululemon Athletica who was bashed for their poor quality materials, to wash away their bad reputation and poor managerial decisions, they simply need to make a good product and the customers will do the rest of the work to bring them back to a dominant brand with their online reviews. This now places the customers in advantage due to being on top of the newest and cheapest materials.
Explanation of Two Sociological Terms
    One term that is often used in sociology, that can be seen in Surowiecki’s article is Rational Choice Theory. Rational choice theory can be defined as individuals make logical and necessary decisions and picking the option that will also be most beneficial or most satisfactory to them. So basically Rational Choice Theory is used any time an individual makes a decision to purchase or exchange a good but does so in manner that will benefit them the most. An example in the real world of Rational Choice Theory is when an individual searches for car insurance. This is an example because an individual will search multiple sites and companies to find the cheapest quote for the same amount of coverage on their car. The more insurance but for a lower price is how Rational Choice Theory can be seen in a real world example. 
    The second term that is oftentimes used in sociology that can be seen in Surowiecki’s article “Twilight of the Brands” is capitalism. Capitalism by definition is an economic and even a political system in which trade and industry is owned by individual private owners rather than by the state. Capitalism allows for business and systems to be owned by a variety of individuals instead of owned by the government. An example of Capitalism in the real world is auto car dealerships. Car dealerships can be seen all throughout the nation including large companies such as Ford, Chevrolet, Audi, Kia, and many more dealerships. There are also multiple used car dealerships that are owned by individuals. These dealerships are privately owned in expectation of earning a profit. Each of these dealerships also have employees to pay who are also earning an income through these bosses or CEOs. Capitalism is private owned businesses for the profit of the owners and individuals invested in the company.
How Sociological Terms Apply to the Article
    Capitalism is the first sociological word found in Surowiecki’s article. This is because from the beginning it is known that Lululemon Athletica is owned by an individual, especially to make money from this business. Not only is this company owned by individuals for profit but so is all of the other companies Surowiecki mentions, such as Heinz, Coca-Cola, Sony, etc. All of these companies are owned for the profit of the owners. It is also capitalism that keeps prices down and keeps the market open to consumers because multiple companies compete for customers. This also devalues brand names such as Apple or General Motors because customers no longer have to buy from certain “reliable” name brand companies. Rather, these same customers, thanks to the excessive use of internet reviews and social media, can shop around for other companies who would have a much harder time reaching customers otherwise. The other sociological term that can be seen in Surowiecki’s article is Rational Choice Theory. This is because individuals, or customers, are seen using online peer reviews and their social media sites to review what products are best for them. They not only can spread the word about the poor product of materials like what happened at Lululemon Athletica, but can also search sites such as TripAdvisor for the cheaper options available instead of having to pay for more expensive goods. Customers have the ability to practically stabilize prices by doing and purchasing what benefits them most. All of these can be attributed back to Surowiecki’s main point in his article, that internet and social media is paving a way for a generation that will search for what they need and find a way to get it for the cheapest options before purchasing.