Extended Definition

Critical writing has many different meanings. So many that many people begin to confuse it with other types of writing. The definition above may also coincide with other literacy terms such as “college writing” and “descriptive writing”. However, with using critical writing, one can tell these terms are not the same.
The term critical writing can best be explained through actions prior to the actual writing. One must put forth the effort to research extensively and include that author’s work and ideas into their own research. Doing so not only revamps previous statements, but also leaves the ability to further one’s knowledge. Albert Einstein’s ideas and findings were the foundation to centuries and centuries of development in scientific discoveries. He created the theory of relativity and was the first human to introduce the space-time continuum. However, at the time, nobody could prove his work. As times, and technology, advanced, physicists began testing his theories. During a total solar eclipse in 1919, researchers were able to prove Einstein’s theory when they saw that space-time was warped within the sun’s corona. This lead to many scientific journals, which many of us use and expand upon today. Like in many of our critical writings, how can scientists write without researching and including previous knowledge?
Descriptive writing is including a wealth of instructions or information when putting forth one’s writing. Sometimes it may be overbearing, much like in storytelling. Some parts of a story are important and therefore should be communicated to the listener. However, there is also some information that is not important and may drown out the imperative parts; misconstruing the overall point of your objective. Instructors and/or readers are obligated to reading only specific sections of one’s research, and if they cannot simply understand the objective, they will lose interest.


College Writing

Simply put, college writing is just as it states; writing at the college level. While writing at the college level, a student may use many different types of writing, including critical and descriptive. Students are taught to use other’s research as a guide to conduct their own questions and answers, much like critical writing. College writing is also a term restricting itself to the classroom. Thinking and writing critically does not have to be conducted within the confines of a classroom or instructor. If there is data that can be elaborated upon, it will be done. This may be in one’s profession, or their passions and hobbies. Whether the arguments the researcher creates are publicized or not, they are still critically writing.

Bibliography

Micciche, Laura R., and Allison D. Carr. “Toward Graduate-Level Writing Instruction.” College		 Composition and Communication, vol. 62, no. 3, 2011, pp. 477–501. JSTOR, JSTOR,		 <www.jstor.org/stable/27917909>.
O'Neill, Ian. “How a Total Solar Eclipse Helped Prove Einstein Right About Relativity.” 	Space.com, 29 May 2017 							<www.space.com/37018-solar-eclipse-proved-einstein-relativity-right.html>.
“Online Guide to Writing and Research.” What is College Writing?, University of Maryland		 University College (UMUC) 			<coursedev.umuc.edu/WRTG999A/chapter1/ch1-01.html>. 
Smith, Sheldon C H. “Critical writing.” EAPFoundation.com, 12 Aug. 2014				 <www.eapfoundation.com/writing/critical/>.
