Project Status Summary
To date, the research that I am conducting is on schedule to be completed. I am currently having difficulties having a proper time to interview my group. I will be traveling home this upcoming weekend to be able to interview them in person.
Work Completed During Week Seven
Week Seven was time to research any last bits of previously published research. I began composing interview questions and any possible surveys that could completed by a community individual. Difficulties in creating purposeful interview topics led to creating a list of concerns and questions that could be asked to Dr. Smith for an upcoming meeting on Monday.
Work Completed During Week Eight
A research meeting with Dr. Smith on Monday helped better understand the path I should continue. We discussed how a good research paper can be interpreted by the reader. The paper would include the employee’s feelings and how their morale changed their work ethic. Dr. Smith and I also discussed how compensation has swayed one’s work ethic one way or the other. As a result, from this meeting, I finished my list of interview questions, as well as created changes to previous questions to focus more on the employee’s feelings. On Friday, class had resumed, and we were given a reasonable timetable for when different sections of the research paper should be completed.
Work Planned for Next Two Weeks
During Week Nine, I plan to begin interviewing employees who are not available for the upcoming weekend via cellphone. These individuals will not be able to complete surveys in person, so I would like to attempt to create an online survey that they could complete through email. During Week Ten, I plan on completing all outstanding interviews by November 1st. The abundance of outcomes from these interview and surveys will begin to be presented in the Result section of my research paper, which will be completed by November 15th.
Open Issues and Risks
An issue that I am currently having is lacking the ability to interview employees who are not in Anytown this weekend, nor have access to a cellphone. Email may be too difficult to conduct whole interviews and surveys. I am also anticipating the risk of employees possibly seeking employment elsewhere. This would bring the hiring of holiday workers that could possibly take away work hours from my work group; affecting my Results and Analysis sections.

Deliverables and Milestones
One week following the completion of the interviews and Surveys, I hopefully will have completed and turned in a Methodology section for review and editing. A week after the Methodology, I plan to have the Results section completed and turned in for comment. This progress in sections will then be slowed; the following week will be used for editing the Methodology and Results sections. After editing, progress will resume on the Analysis section, which will then be completed and turned in for comment.
Key Success Indicators (KSIs)
The performance of future steps and milestones will be based off the quality and promptness of the interviews. Currently, I am on task with my schedule. With the coming of multiple sections I would like to have completed in my schedule, I would like to produce 1-2 pages per week, on top of the sections that are already completed. I will use each completed section as an indicator of whether I am on schedule or not.
