 Spectrum of Abuse
Abuse is a cruel display of feelings and emotions that impact the abuser’s loved
ones. Everyone should feel respected and safe in a personal relationship with another
person. Unfortunately, in “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It's Not” the author
explains how people can make the mistake of seeing cruelty as caring. Abuse should
not just be viewed as physical violence against another; however, abuse should be
considered on a spectrum of undesirable demonstrations of abusive behavior. Types of
abuse can include psychological (emotional) abuse, sexual abuse, financial abuse,
stalking, or abuse physically inflicted. Abuse ranges from jealous behavior, control of
another person, to the extreme of actual inflicting of violence onto another person.
Jealousy is a seemingly normal emotion one can feel when their relationship with
someone feels threatened; however, jealous behavior can range from the fear of being
left to just pure rage and abuse. For example, jealousy can start off with a seemingly
insignificant action, such as checking your significant other’s phone to see who they
have been talking to. Or, another example could be a situation wherein they don't like
what you are wearing so they compel you to change your outfit. In fact, jealousy could
change to them into controlling what you do and who you see including your family and
friends. This type of behavior can seem normal in the beginning but it can slowly
change to an abusive situation. In the text, the author gives a list from the National
Domestic Violence Hotline, which shows what domestic violence actually looks like. On
that is list is: “Control what you do, who you see or talk to, or where you go, Stop you 
from seeing your friends or family members.” The instance of domestic violence can
quickly morph from seemingly cute displays of jealousy into much more to controlling
and oppressive behavior. The abused victim will not even recognize that the
relationship has turned abusive and may even defend their abusers actions by offering
explanations to others when questioned.
Use of control in a relationship comes next on the spectrum after jealous
behavior. The abuser will oftentimes exert control over what the victim can do, go, say,
or even wear. The abuser may demand that the victim change an outfit because they
believe that the outfit may be to revealing or that it attracts attention from others. With
controlling behavior comes threats and emotional abuse. The controlling behavior
might be as subtle as the abuser controlling the victim’s decisions. For example
Burroughs says, “They might supply reasonable arguments as to why they and not you
should make important decisions.” However subtle controlling behavior can lead to a
dark turn toward insidious threats. In the National Domestic Violence Hotline checklist,
some threats are: “Threatening to take away or hurt your children, Threatening to kill
your pets, Threatening to commit suicide, and Threatening to kill you.” Although there is
an absence of physical abuse, the abuse is psychological in nature and is another level
on the spectrum of abuse.
Lastly, physical abuse is the final step on spectrum of abuse. Physical abuse can
range from destroying personal items that belong to the victim, or grabbing, hitting, or
pushing, their significant other. Physical abuse like this can oftentimes result in serious
bodily injury or even death. Although a person may be in a abusive relationship; they
stay with their abuser for the same reasons people in loving relationships stay. That 
reason is that they simply have a life together, according to Burroughs. Abusive
relations are hard to detect at times. The abused person thinks something like that
simply could not and would not happen to them. To outsiders, the victim may make up
excuses to cover up any appearance of the unhealthy relationship. In addition, the
abuser can go to extreme lengths to keep the matter private by lying to outsiders or
issuing stark threats to the victim to keep them quiet about what is really going on.
Abuse is a malevolent cycle that keeps people trapped in a seemingly hopeless
situation with no way out. Victims must find the courage to recognize that something is
not right and be brave enough to change their environment. Whether the abuse comes
in any form –mental, emotional, or physical, it must be stopped in its tracks. Not only is
the abuse spectrum real, but it must be recognized sooner rather than later.