	
Junot Diaz was born in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic in1968; he immigrated to New Jersey in 1975. He earned his literature and history degrees from Rutgers University. Diaz’s fiction stories typically involves young Dominican struggles, which he is loved for. He wrote an essay called “The Dreamer”, where he talks about a time in his mother’s life in the Dominican Republic. In the essay, I found three themes: lives your own life, achieve your dreams, and choose your actions carefully. 
	Live your own life. In the essay Diaz’s grandmother “Expected her to work on the family farm until she died or was married off.” If his mother did what her mother wanted, she would most likely still be in the Dominican Republic, and Junot would probably not be a writer today. Parents say they know what is best for their children, but their fears can hinder them from reaching their full potential in life. Fears and concerns could make their child’s life miserable. For example, a woman has a brother who lost his life in the military, and now her son wants to go into the military. She and her son know what could happen him, so she tells him not to go because she does not want to lose him. Her son was, eager to join, but he put his moms’ feelings first and decided to get a “normal” civilian job. His mom is happy with his choice, but he regrets making that decision every day because that is all he thinks about. It is okay to listen to other peoples’ opinions, but in the end, you need to decide what make you happy. If you do not, then you could regret if for the rest of your life. 
Choose your actions carefully. Your actions can affect others. “Everything that I have ever written, was possible because a seven- year-old up in the hills of Azua knelt before a puddle, found change herself and drank.” In result of that her mother went to prison. If decided to not drink the water her life would be way different, and she could have still ben working on a farm, and Junot would not have existed. Your actions can affect people besides your family. For example President Trump is trying to build a border to the stop illegal immigrants from coming to the U.S. Some of the people have had children here which means their children are citizens, but they are not. So if they get deported their kids are not going to have parents, even though they came here a long time ago, got a job, and started a family. Basically, he is tearing families apart just because they wanted a better life for their family. 
	Achieve your dreams. “No one more threatened by the thought of an educated girl than my grandmother.” His mother sent his grandmother to jail because she would not let her go to school. She was so determined to get an education and become a nurse. She did what she had to do to get what she wanted in life, no matter what happened. By her achieving her dreams, she had a son who got to write a story about her struggle, and how she over came it.
