Impacts of Mobile Phones
	Remember when the razor first came out? The Razor was the newest flip phone that came out in three colors! Everyone wanted it. After the Razor, the Blackberry was revealed.  The big thing about the Blackberry was the qwerty keyboard. Finally, a phone that had one letter for each button! Then along came the iPhone and revolutionized mobile phones. Today we are now up to the iPhone X that has features such as facial recognition, fingerprint recognition, texting, GPS, internet, and so much more. The advancements that have been made for mobile phones are truly amazing; however, the effects of the advancements are not so amazing. For example, these advancements have led to lower social skills, distractions, and too much dependence on phones.
	Social skills are being lowered in many people because more time is spent on the phone than actually interacting with one another.  Quick, short texts can be sent, replacing phone calls from the past.  Texts can be to the point and often one word, showing no emotion whatsoever, and still get the point across. This would show up when people are having a conversation in person and seem awkward or run out of things to talk about. The conversation cannot be kept. Another negative impact is most often people use “text talk”, which is just abbreviations for words, that then decreases vocabulary. Vocabulary is lowered from never trying to use different words to make something sound better or stand out. In this aspect, the texting option that offers such quick and easy responses is not always worth the consequence.
	The distraction of such an advanced phone has been the cause of many car wrecks. Looking on the maps feature, or simply reading someone’s updated status results in the driver’s eye off the road and a potential wreck. People have actually died themselves from this or killed others’ loved one because of the cell phone distraction.  In fact, cars now have the map locked inside the car because the GPS is such a distraction and can only be used when in park. This is linked back to the issues caused by the advancements in the phone. Also, college and high school students use google to cheat on assignments in class. Teachers now have to make sure students’ phones are completely off during tests or assignments. Lastly, the distraction created from the updates in phones take away time spent with family or going outside because there are so many things available on the phone. It is appealing to people because of how quickly something can be done in an App. The entertainment provided from the phone keeps some people distracted to the point they don’t feel the need to go out and socialize.  The ability to quickly text allows you to carry on multiple conversations while ignoring the family or friends around you.  Again, the price paid for the quick and updated technology is not worth it in the long run.
	The dependence on phones now was once just used for making simple phone calls, but has now transformed into using the phone for an alarm, reminders, weather forecasts, calendars, notes, keeping up to date with the news, family and friends, or to look up things on google. What happens when the phone dies or messes up? The user does not know what to do without the phone. It is all anyone relies on. It causes impatience in many people because now what was once at the palm of the hand is now no longer there. 
	Many times as humans the most updated, eye catching object is the new thing. People go get what is in style without ever truly looking into the damage it can do. Honestly, some never even realize how much it has already impacted the individual’s life until it is actually pointed out. The technological advancements in mobile phones would surprise previous generations more than ever imaginable, but the price paid for these advancements can often outweigh the benefits by far.
