
Sound’s vital role in the Arctic
The aquatic Arctic has been previously portrayed as a “silent world”, a perception the oceanographer Kate Stafford now identifies as false. In her Ted Talk, “How human noise affects ocean habitats”, Stafford employs visual imagery and audio gathered from her personal explorations to discount the silent ocean perception. Stafford emphasizes the importance of sound in the Arctic for the animals within, while explaining how human noise and accelerated climate change is transforming the sea soundscape. Utilizing her career-acquired knowledge and moving marine mammal depictions, Stafford successfully reasons how anthropogenic noise with associated climate change is negatively affecting our Arctic life and why it is the peoples’ obligation to take responsibility and find solutions.
	Stafford begins her emotionally stirring presentation by acknowledging a widely recognized notion that the Arctic is a vast frigid desert of quietude; when in fact it is filled with sounds of marine mammals and invertebrates teeming below the ice’s surface, even the ice itself makes sound (01:12-01:30). The creatures of the Arctic such as bowhead and beluga whales use sound to communicate, navigate, and find food (Stafford 00:38). It (hearing) is utilized over sight due to light’s poor transmission underwater and sounds’ much superior transmission (Stafford 02:40). Stafford emphasizes sounds’ importance by comparing it to how most humans see; since even marine dwelling mammals need to breathe, knowing where there is a break in the ice to surface is crucial and sound is the medium that allows them to determine this. The audience (earth’s people compassionate about the environment) is able to identify the significance of sight for them is as significant as sound and hearing is for marine mammals. She plays audio clips of marine mammals to display the symphonic beauty of their sound directly to the audience, influencing their perception of the animals. In addition to the audio clips, Stafford visually depicts the animals of the arctic with such admiration, that she naturally elicits sympathy for the creatures from her listeners: the ice “screeches and cracks and pops and groans, as it collides and rubs when temperature or currents or winds change…and under 100 percent sea ice in the dead of winter, bowhead whales are singing” (02:19-02:35).
	While Stafford is able to move the audience with her detailed imagery of the Arctic environment, she is only able to do so because of her own extensive experience researching the Arctic landscape and the whales within. She states that she loves the Arctic and there is no place she’d rather be (Stafford 01:20). With the manner in which she describes the landscape and animals, it can only be a genuine love for the Arctic that she devotes her life to study it and advocate its protection. Her professional expertise helps to illustrate how the physical landscape is changing and how it is affecting the inhabitants. She stresses throughout her talk that the Arctic is changing; there is decreasing seasonal sea ice, changes in whale migration/behavior, and dramatic alterations in the ‘underwater soundscape’ (Stafford 05:26). She strongly affirms human induced climate change as the reason for the rapidly changing Arctic (Stafford 04:30). Using sound logic, she explains how the decreased sea ice is altering the sounds of the ocean. The ice acts as a buffer between the water and the air, therefore muting the harsh winds from the underwater soundscape. With decreased ice, Stafford reveals how the noises of the water and waves that were lacking with the buffer now penetrate the water’s surface, mixing into the natural soundscape (06:36-07:00).
The timing of whale migration is also changing with the decreased sea ice; subarctic species such as humpback whales are staying in their once temporary Arctic feeding ground for longer periods, traveling further north (Stafford 07:03). The yearlong resident whales such as the bowheads are experiencing more sounds. Stafford makes it clear that scientists are currently unsure how exactly this extenuation of subarctic species in the Arctic will affect the environment and natives, but it will undoubtedly affect the underwater sounds. Stafford lists many possibilities that could result from subarctic species increased stay: possible disease or parasite introduction, competition for food, and communication confusion (Stafford 07:40). In addition to increased wind and water noise, increased human generated noise has also been recorded in the Arctic waters according to Stafford. The increased open water is allowing for more ship activity on the Arctic sea in the form of “tourism, commercial shipping, and oil exploration” (Stafford 08:20). Stafford identifies ship noise as a direct cause of increased whale stress hormones and feeding disruption (08:40).
Stafford successfully illustrates why sound is essential in the Arctic and why human caused climate change coupled with a larger human presence is altering the underwater world in a variety of negative forms. While she initially discounts the “silent ocean” perception, Stafford acknowledges that at one time, before large-scale industrialization and observable human impact, the ocean could have well been silent relative to its current status (11:41).  Although she is able to effectively communicate the problem of Arctic sound change and why it is a problem, Stafford fails to adequately describe how her audience can make a difference at an individual level.  She ends her talk on a positive, inspiring note about the ways in which we can decrease ship noise via: slowing the ships’ speed, innovating new ways to research the ocean, and travel with quieter ships; however, she does not address how individuals are supposed to enact these changes in policy. Stafford acknowledges the human race’s obligation to take action to decelerate climate change, but she is not specific in how to do so. She lacks an urgency and specificity in her final statements that is necessary to communicate the enormity of this matter to the audience in order for them to pay it immediate attention.
Stafford utilizes her professional work to communicate to the audience how the Arctic Ocean’s sounds have changed from all natural to a mix, including human generated sounds. Stafford identifies human noise as a compounding effect on top of climate change that is adversely impacting the Arctic and its inhabitants in a multitude of ways; she appeals to her audience the ways in which humans can help combat these human mediated impacts. She effectively communicates the importance of sound and expresses the need for human involvement in protecting the Arctic, while ultimately failing to help the audience take direct action. 











Works Cited
Stafford, Kate. “How human noise affects ocean habitat: Ideas worth spreading.” TED, May 
	2017, www.ted.com/talks/kate_stafford_how_human_noise_affects_ocean_habitats. 
	Accessed 26 August 2017.
