Facebook Is Not Your Friend
In Lori Andrews’ article, “Facebook Is Using You”, Andrews is claiming that Facebook, as well as other internet service providers should be limited to the data that they can retrieve. Andrews believes Facebook users should have laws to protect them from harm. Facebook makes money by selling ad space to companies that utilizes the data collected in a variety of ways that may not always be beneficial to the consumer. Facebook is using their subscriber’s personal data to advertise, stereotype and give social implications of certain areas.
Advertisement is a notice or announcement in a public medium promoting a product, service, or event or publicizing a job vacancy. The advertisement that pops up on a user’s Facebook page may seem useful at times and a nuisance at other times, but there is much more to that ad. Just from an ad popping up on a user’s page can cause them issues in the long run. “The bits and bytes about your life can easily be used against you.” (Andrews 542) It can affect you receiving a job, car loan or a credit card approval depending on how your information is being used. Ads bring in millions of dollars from internet users annually due to the use of personal data.  This is one of the reasons that companies will never stop reaching people in this manner unless there is a law passed. Advertising is what helps to keep companies in business. They reach out to the consumers through the internet to sell products and services.  
A stereotype is a well-known idea or image of a person or idea that is held by many people. Creating stereotypes is widespread and very common in data aggregation. Facebook uses people to stereotype on a daily basis which can negatively portray someone. Andrews stated, “Your application for credit could be declined not on the basis of your own finances or credit history, but on the basis of aggregate data.”  (Andrews 542). Data aggregation is any process in which information is gathered and expressed in a summary form, for purposes such as statistical analysis. A common aggregation purpose is to get more information about particular groups based on specific variables such as age, profession, or income. For example, as Andrews stated, “If guitar players or divorcing couples are more likely to renege on their credit-card bills, then the fact that you’ve looked at guitar ads or sent an email to a divorce lawyer might cause a data aggregator to classify you as less credit-worthy” (Andrews 542). This data is not factual, and it does not apply to all guitar players or divorcing couples which makes it unfair to the internet user.
The social implications of an event or action are the results, on society or part of society, of the event or the action. The idea of social implications can also be extended to a law or a policy, that is, a planned set of repeated actions. Data aggregation has a social implication as well. Everything posted or viewed online is being used in some shape or form by people behind the scene. Andrews is trying to make people aware that things posted online can be detrimental in your everyday life. You have to be cautious and very mindful of what you are searching and posting on the internet. As a young adult interested in the new apps and technology of the world today this essay from Lori Andrews has made me become more security conscious of my personal data. 
I support Andrew’s theory and feel that there should be a law put in place that will allow Facebook users to have more control over their personal data and information used by internet providers. Facebook is using their subscriber’s personal data to advertise, stereotype and give social implications of certain areas. A strong privacy policy is needed when using the internet. The sharing of your personal information could result into you becoming a victim of identity theft or worse.  The internet should not be able to share any information without permission. Be aware of what’s being posted because Facebook is watching.
