Summary of “Twilight of the Brands”
	James Surowiecki’s article “Twilight of the Brands” discusses the devaluing of brand names in modern times due to people’s virtually unlimited access to information through the use of the internet. Surowiecki argues that in the recent past, brands were extremely valuable. Consumers’ minimal use and dependence on the internet limited the information they could find about brands; thus, most consumers continued to purchase products from the brands they had always trusted. Surowiecki goes on to explain that finding information about smaller, new, or less popular brands was especially difficult. Purchasing from larger, trusted brands minimized consumer risk. Surowiecki also includes that a study from the nineteen-eighties showed nearly four-fifths of car-purchasing Americans stayed loyal to brands, further supporting his idea that internet access has radically changed the value of brands at the expense of the producers. Contrary to times past, people today not only maximize their use of the internet—they depend on it. Internet use allows people to safely review and explore other brands, even if they are smaller or less popular. In addition, larger, “trusted” brands have more chances of their products’ flaws becoming exposed to the public. In fact, Surowiecki included results from a recent study done by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which found that eighty percent of customers look at online reviews before making major purchases. He notes that countless more studies have been done that prove these online reviews and ratings have significant influence on consumers’ decisions. Though Surowiecki states that this is an extreme disadvantage for production companies, he recognizes that this surge of information in beneficial to consumers; they make better purchase choices, and competition between companies keeps prices low. In addition, it makes smaller businesses have greater chances of success and competition with larger companies. The article closes by saying that products now have to prove their worth in order to earn customer respect, as opposed to just simply having a popular brand name.
Explanation of Two Sociological Terms
	Two terms used in sociology that are applicable to “Twilight of the Brands” are the rational choice theory and literature review. Rational choice theory states that individuals make logical decisions that will provide them with the greatest self-satisfaction given the options available. In other words, people will make decisions based on what is best for them personally. An example of rational choice theory is a flea market. People bring whatever they want to sell—fruits, vegetables, animals, etc—and in turn, others choose from the products based on what they need and what will be most beneficial. Another example of this is a farmer’s market; farmers set up a stand with assorted crops and people choose vegetables or fruits they want and often have the option to negotiate price. Literature review can also be seen in the article. Literature review is when a researcher reviews existing studies on a particular subject to further his or her argument without doing his or her own research. An example of this is a research paper a student might write for an Advanced Placement course; generally the student will comprise their own thesis statement, but the support they use to prove it is usually secondary sources on research not conducted by the student. Dissertation papers also typically rely on literature review as support for their main argument. Rarely do they ever include research done by the individual who is responsible for writing the dissertation.


Application of Terms to the Article
	“Twilight of the Brands” holds many examples of both literature review and rational choice theory. Literature review comprises the entire article; Surowiecki’s argument relies on research already done by others. There are multiple examples of this throughout the article, one being the study mentioned above done by PricewaterhouseCoopers. The study claims that eighty percent of consumers use the internet to review products before making a large purchase. Another example of literature review in the article is the study done by Ernst and Young, which found that only 25% of customers consider brand loyalty a factor when they shop. Literature review is also used when Surowiecki mentions a study that concluded four fifths of Americans remained loyal to brands when buying cars. Literature review explains how the article could be produced by its author without him physically having to do his own research. In addition to literature review, examples of rational choice theory can be found within the article in its entirety. Surowiecki implicitly refers to this concept throughout his writing; when he tells of Luluemon Athletica’s business decline, the rise in people’s use of TripAdvisor, or the increase of Acer products purchased in the United States, it is the result of rational choice theory. For reasons such as quality, price, personal need, or efficiency, people adjust their purchase patterns and brands they buy according to what best suits them. This also explains why “name brands” mean less and less in society today; with unlimited access to product reviews, people can customize and choose the product best fit for them more easily now than ever before. This further explains why brands and companies must prove themselves with each product manufactured in order to earn customer satisfaction. If expectations are not met, consumers can easily move on to another brand or product that they deem better in regard to their needs.