The House We Live in: Race – The Power of Illusion

A social construct is an idea that is created by a society. What it means to that say race is socially constructed is that race and the different kinds of races are not based in biology, but are chosen, sometimes arbitrarily, by a society. An example would be how in the United States in the early 20th century when the law enforced segregation and discrimination, the courts decided who was racially white and who was not. The courts ended up concluding that Japanese were not white despite their light skin color, because pseudoscience of the time said so. However, the courts later concluded that Indians were not white, even though the same pseudoscience sources they used before indicated that Indians were white. This shows that definitions of race were defined not by shade of skin color or by the pseudoscience of the time, but were instead chosen arbitrarily based on preexisting prejudices against certain ethnic groups.

An example of institutionalized racism in the United States would be the National Appraisal System, which judged the value of a home based on the quality of the home and neighborhood, but another factor in the system was the racial makeup of the surrounding area. Because of this, the neighborhoods self-segregated, and minorities were left in poorer areas.

White ethnics were not considered white because what white was defined as was about differences in general, not just differences of physical characteristics. Americans might have not considered eastern Europeans or Jews as white because they were poor, and they brought “weird” cultural traditions with them. These white ethnics eventually would come to be seen as white through the idea of “the melting pot”, which essentially meant that these groups would be considered white when they assimilated into American culture.

One problem with color-blind ideology is that assumes that we are already living in the world where a man is not judged based on the color of his skin but by the content of his character, leading people who hold this ideology to quit paying attention to the struggles of minority groups.
