
“Kambili change in character”

The novel “Purple Hibiscus” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie tells a story of how two Nigerian children rebelled against their very strict, abusive father. The siblings experience a major change before they can stand up to their father. They had to become more mature, more responsible and independent of their father. Kambili goes through a considerable change in her character, before she grows into maturity. A visit with extended family changes Kambili from a shy, withdrawn girl to a confident, mature young lady.
	At the beginning of the novel, Kambili seems immature and young because she is very observant but does not speak very often. She is also naive and innocent, which makes us feel for her more. Kambili adheres to her father’s strict and constraining schedules. She is happy when she makes her father happy. Kambili went to bed happy when she was first in her class, because it pleased her father.  Kambili is considered as a “backyard snob” because she never talks to anyone, never had any friends. She was unable to express herself, and barely ever laughed; “i was not sure wat my laughter sounded like”(Adichie, 95).                                                                                                                             
	A trip to visit extended family was eye opening for Kambili. Kambili’s cousin, Amaka was instrumental in her change as they became very close, like sisters. The two would tell each other stories and cook together. Although the two were social opposites they got along great. Amaka helped Kambili become more open and make friends. Amaka laughs, wears make-up, and listens to music like a typical, lively teenage girl. Amaka is only one of the many people who brought about a change in Kambili’s life. Nsukka in general brings change. It is when Kambili and Jaja visits Nsukka that they start to change and become more mature. They are exposed to a different lifestyle, they are not constrained to Papa, they are allowed to be free and experiment! “Nsukka air will be good for me, for my recuperation”.(237) Father Amadi is another person who changed Kambili. Father Amadi is an encouraging which contributes to Kambili’s change. This is shown when Amadi manages to convince Kambili to run after him! In fact she says “i had smiled, run, laughed”, three things she had never done before. Kambili considers father Amadi one of her only friends and begins to idealize and fall in love with him. She starts to look up to Amadi and not to her father anymore! Aunty Ifeoma also helped Kambili become less dependant on papa. This is shown when she takes the schedules from Kambili and Jaja and for the first time in their life Kambili and Jaja are free to do what they like which causes them to change.
 The impact of the trip shows up later once Kambili returns home more confident with the willingness to rebel against papa. Kambili begins to defy her father, when she steals the picture of papa Nnukwu and keeps it in her room and when she describes Papa as a “tall stranger”! However, Kambili still remains loyal to her father and obeys him still; she does not go to the extent and rebel totally against him, unlike Jaja. This also shows that she isn’t mature enough and therefore obeys her father and Jaja to an extent. Kamili had a restricted life due to her father’s rules and she retained her Catholic faith. However, due to her experience with Father Amadi, she practiced a more liberal version. The trip to Nsukka to visit Amaka, Aunty Ifeoma and Father Amadi made Kambili less scared of her father and more able to speak up. She learned how to express herself, smile,  laugh more often, and act more like a normal teenage girl. 
Kambili’s change from an immature girl oppressed by her fanatical father to a mature and confident woman, thanks to her time in Nsukka, is essential to understanding the idea of freedom and oppression in Purple Hibiscus. The parallel of freedom and oppression on both a personal and political level created by the author helped me go beyond the text and understand the idea more deeply. The novel follows not only Kambili’s “coming of age” but also Nigeria’s. It shows that often the struggles and conflicts that both people and nations undergo during their childhood are necessary to their maturing and entrance into adulthood. (Nwokocha, 176)














Adichie, Chilmamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Chapel Hill: Algonquin Books, 2003.
Nwokocha, Cecily. Photovoltaics in Nigeria. vol.116 pp.176-182 Renewable Energy: An International Journal, 2018.
