John Faustus: Tragic Hero or Tragic Failure?
A traditional tragic hero follows a set list of characteristics: they are of noble status; they are good, though not perfect; they fall because of some act of injustice; their fall is their own fault; their punishment exceeds their crime; they gain self-knowledge; and the audience experiences a feeling of catharsis (a feeling relief that the members of the audience did not have to endure what the hero endured).  The main character of “The Tragical History of John Faustus” by Christopher Marlowe, John Faustus, is often described as a tragic hero, but Faustus’s character does not line up with the characteristics of a tragic hero.  Faustus is not a good person, does not experience a fall because of an act of injustice, and does not gain self-knowledge by the end of the play.  Because Faustus violates so many of the characteristics of a tragic hero, classifying him as such is impossible.
	Throughout the play, Faustus puts on the airs of a caring humanitarian, but his actions all serve only himself, sometimes at the expense of others.  Faustus brags about being a skilled physician, but he did not learn medicine for the sake of saving people; he learned medicine so that he could become rich and famous for creating cures: “Be a physician, Faustus, heap up gold, / And be eternized for some wondrous cure.” (Marlowe, Scene 1, 14-15).  Faustus is doing a good service only to gain admiration and to create a legacy, not simply to do the right thing and help others.  Once he makes his deal with Lucifer, Faustus is almost comical in the way he abandons his noble goals in favor of childish pranks and pleasures.  When Faustus is pondering the power he is about to be granted by Mephastophilis, he claims he will “…be [a] great emperor of the world, / And make a bridge through the moving air / To pass the ocean with a band of men” (Marlowe, Scene 3, 104-106).  But, instead of reforming continents, and making vast bridges to travel and conquer the world, Faustus asks Mephastophilis to make him invisible, goes to the Pope’s banquet, makes all the church officials attending believe he is an evil spirit, and boxes the Pope over the ear (Marlowe, Scene 7, 43-79).  Faustus does not become a great world leader; he chooses to use the unimaginable knowledge and power he gained to play childish pranks for his own amusement. Faustus’s uncaring, self-serving motives prove that he is not a good person, so he cannot be a tragic hero.
	Additionally, Faustus does not fall because of some act of injustice, his fall happens in a legally binding, just manner.  Faustus sets his own terms by which his fall occurs in a contract between himself, Mephastophilis, and Lucifer: 
“I, John Faustus of Wittenberg, doctor, by these presents, do give both body and soul to Lucifer, Prince of the East, and his minister Mephastophilis; and furthermore, grant unto them that, four and twenty years being expired, the articles above-written inviolate, full power to fetch or carry the said John Faustus, body and soul, flesh, blood, or goods, into their habitation wheresoever.” (Marlowe, Scene 5, 104-109).  
Because Faustus sets the terms for his own fall, down to the date, his fall could not have come by an act of injustice.  On the contrary, the most just outcome is that Faustus falls after his twenty-four years of omnipotence because a fulfilled agreement of two consenting parties cannot be considered an act of injustice.  So, when the devils enter and drag Faustus to hell exactly as the clock strikes twelve at the end of the twenty-fourth year (Marlowe, Scene 13, 105-113), the contract Faustus signed was legitimately fulfilled.  Faustus’s end may have been pitiable, but, regardless, he knowingly agreed to be put to that end in exchange for a few years of pleasure.  Faustus did not fall because of an act of injustice, but rather, he fell because the recklessness of his poor foresight and prideful nature. 
	A tragic hero would also gain self-knowledge through his/her trials, but Faustus does not learn anything about the mistakes he made.  Faustus seems to acknowledge that selling his soul was a mistake at many points in the play, yet he never does anything to make amends.  He has multiple opportunities to repent of his mistake, but squanders every opportunity and immediately turns away from God and back to Lucifer. In scene 5, just after Faustus makes his deal, Faustus has a crisis of conscience, claiming, “Ah Christ my Savior! Seek to save / Distressèd Faustus’ soul!” (Marlowe, Scene 5, 256-257).  But just a few lines later, he says, “And Faustus vows never to look to heaven, / Never to name God, or to pray to Him” (Marlowe, Scene 5, 268-269). Although Faustus seems to have gained self-knowledge and repented for selling his soul, his immediate return to Lucifer shows otherwise.  Faustus refuses to acknowledge that he truly made a mistake, instead convincing himself that allying with the devils will be the best decision.  Even when Faustus’s death is impending, he says, “No, Faustus, curse thy self, curse Lucifer, / That hath deprived thee of the joys of heaven.” (Marlowe, Scene 13, 104-105).  Faustus almost blames himself for his damnation, but instead shifts blame to Lucifer.  He refuses to accept responsibility for his actions, and thereby refuses to learn anything from his experiences.  So, throughout every trial Faustus experiences, he refuses to admit his mistakes thus refusing gain self-knowledge from his experiences.  
	Faustus certainly does fit into a few of the characteristics of a tragic hero.  His fall is inarguably his own fault, and the audience may even experience a feeling of catharsis, or a feeling relief that they did not have to endure what the hero endured; but Faustus still violates too many of the characteristics of a tragic hero to legitimately be considered one.  He is not of noble status, he is not a good person, he does not fall because of some act of injustice; his punishment does not exceed his crime, and he does not gain self-knowledge.  So, by the traditional standards, one cannot consider John Faustus a tragic hero.
