

Introduction
In Spyrometry studies, many authors have discussed how vital capacity (VC) may be impacted by stature, age, gender, health status and lifestyle.  Spirometry is the process of measuring the air an individual inhales and exhales (Seeley et al., 2008).  VC may be defined as the maximum volume of exhaled air that a person can expel from fully inflated lungs (Petty, 2002).  A spirometer, an instrument used to measure VC, was first invented by John Hutchinson in the 1800’s (Petty, 2002).  Hutchinson measured VC of 2,130 individuals and found that lung air volume was affected by disease conditions (Hutchinson, 1846).  Seeley et al., (2008), found that VC increases with age, height and obesity.  VC was also found to decrease by being female, having specific diseases, such as muscular diseases and by not being a well-trained athlete (Seeley et al., 2008).  Other factors that could affect VC are whether the participant smokes, chest circumference, resting pulse rate and whether the participant is standing.  According to a previous study of 7,882 subjects, Janson et al., (2001), individuals that smoke tend to have lower lung functions than nonsmoking individuals.  The applications of spirometry are beneficial to form a medical diagnosis.  A spirometer application can test individuals with a cough, shortness of breath, and/or wheezing (Petty, 2002).  Petty (2002) found the spirometer to be a useful indicator of obstructive and restrictive ventilatory disorders.  Repetitive spirometry tests can provide the assessment of disease progression in patients in need of treatment trials, for example patients with Duchenne muscular disorder (DMD), a disorder consisting of abnormal dystrophin proteins, which leads to impairment of muscle strength and structure (Phillips et al., 2001).   

The purpose of this study was to investigate if there is a relationship between VC and other parameters such as height, chest circumference, resting pulse rate, age, sex and whether the individual was an athlete or smoked.  These findings relate to other scientific findings because age, sex and height are parameters used when comparing spirometry results (Antwi et al., 2011).  The object of this study was to collect these various spirometry data from college students, which would be scrutinized for factors affecting VC.  The hypothesis tested is that VC correlated with the other parameters including stature, heartbeats per minute, gender, age and lifestyle.
