Just a Normal Day
	The most embarrassing moment of my life happened when I was 11 years old. I will never forget December 5th 2008. I went to Mentone, Alabama for the skiing resort that has fake snow. My best friend came with us that year and we had a blast. For hours we rode down the same hill on a trash can lid. Each time down we had bigger smiles with even louder laughs. I can still feel us riding down that giant hill constantly picking up speed as we came down. Just like every good thing the day had to come to an end. I walked back to the car to get a dry set of clothes and that’s when I realized I never packed another pair of panties.
	My family is extremely close. We go on vacations about 3 to 4 times a year. The vacations are the same places each year. It is always Foley in November, Mentone and Gatlinburg in December, and Gulf Shores in July. Each year we go to Mentone we rent this old, homey cabin that backs into this beautiful creek. Along with going to the same places each year we always make a point go snow sledding too. This is my favorite part of the whole vacation. I always had to make sure the trash can lid was smooth with no dents and slightly wet. The smoothness along with being damp made me go faster down the hill. The best part about sledding was the faster I went the more I laughed and the more I laughed the faster I crashed. It is the adrenaline rush I get from this that made me do it over and over and over again. 
	This trip was different though from all the rest because that year we did a day trip and I got to take a friend. I invited my best friend of course and we were so excited. I had told her about all the trips before and everything we would do. By the time we got to Mentone we both had our coats on and the lids in our laps. When we got out we did not even wait for my parents. Instead we just ran for the infamous hill. We spent the entire day in the same spot going down the same hill. By the end of the day we were riding on one lid to make it go even faster. We had a blast and were soaked from head to toe by the end of the day. This is when it all happened. 
	The skiing resort was closing so we were heading to the car when it hit me. I forgot my dry panties. I thought to myself this can not be. I literally searched the entire car. I could not find them anywhere. So I ended up having to go without any. I had to wear jeans without panties. Not only was it embarrassing but also very uncomfortable! It would not have been so bad if my friend had not have came. Everyone laughed and to this day we still laugh about this story.
	This was a very embarrassing moment, but in the overall scheme of things this was just a normal day for me. If anyone forgets something on vacation it is always me. However, I always tell my family I keep things interesting. I always tend to embarrass myself but that’s life. I have learned to just laugh and never think twice about it. Embrace it. At the end of the day we had a great time and now we have a funny story to go along with it.
