After learning and reading about Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne, one can recognize how their life experiences and era shape the message of their literary works. These two writers, born almost fifty years apart, had a completely different family setting, thus their writings differ and so does their morals. In literature, personal experiences in the writers’ lives have a great significance in their writing style, theme, and symbolism.

	Personal experiences always have a different impact on the readers as well as the writers. Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne’s writing styles derive from their personal experiences. For example, some of Chopin’s personal experiences include her growing up surrounded by intelligent and independent women, her been widowed at the age of thirty-two and her taking care of her children. Chopin’s personal experiences influence her short stories and novels, which mostly focus on the independence of women and, unlike her role models, sexual appetite. In contrast, Hawthorne’s life experiences drive him to write in a gloomier style. Hawthorne’s personal experiences begin at a very young age since he was born in Salem, Massachusetts to a long line of Puritans. He was also friends with Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau, whom also influenced his style. Therefore, most of his literary works focus on the wrong-doing and the morals some people follow; however, most people characterize him as dark romantic.

	In addition, Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne’s personal experiences influence the various themes in their literary works. For example, Chopin’s “The Story of an Hour” depicts the themes of freedom and autonomy. The main character, Mrs. Mallard, explains how her marriage is somewhat dissolved of ties after the supposed death of her husband; she explains how freedom from her difficult marriage is the best outcome that could ever happen to a woman. Perhaps Chopin’s difficulties in her own marriage encouraged her to write about what freedom would be, as well as how independence would feel after the death of one’s partner. Hawthorne also writes according to personal experiences. His themes focus mainly on sin, occasionally hypocrisy, and the Puritan ideologies from his family in most of his works. In Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown,” the reader can perceive the hypocrisy amongst the people in the village and how even the holiest person in the village has his or her own deeds with the dark side. In most of Hawthorne’s works, the theme of sin is prevalent, and it shows how Hawthorne’s experiences with his growing up in a Puritan family impacted his writing.

	Correspondingly, symbolism is also influenced by personal experiences. Symbolism plays a major role in both “Young Goodman Brown” and “The Story of an Hour” by Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin respectively. In “Young Goodman Brown,” Faith’s pink ribbons symbolize the loss of innocence. This is tied to the ideologies of Hawthorne’s ancestors of innocent people falling into the devil’s arms. In “The Story of an Hour,” the reader can perceive how the opened window of Mrs. Mallard’s bedroom symbolizes the freedom that she talks about. This is tied to Chopin’s moving around from place to place with her husband until the day he died. After his death, she obtained the opportunity to settle and became free of her decisions. This symbol also correlates with the theme of freedom that characterizes Chopin’s works of literature.

	In conclusion, personal experiences can shape the way a writer views the world, as well as their interpretation of fantasies. The possibility of traumas, such as a sudden death or the failure of multiple jobs, help the writers augment their abilities to create new worlds with new people. For Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin, these experiences helped them grow as individuals, as well as helping their stories have a unique essence. Some of the writers’ style, themes, and symbols reflect their love affairs, their failures, and their personal lives.     

































Works Cited

Clark, Pamela. “Biography.” The Kate Chopin International Society, KateChopin.org. Accessed 3 	February 2018.

SparkNotes Editors. “SparkNotes on The Story of an Hour.” SparkNotes LLC, SparkNotes.com. 	Accessed 2 Feb. 2018.

SparkNotes Editors. “SparkNotes on Young Goodman Brown.”. SparkNotes LLC, 	SparkNotes.com. Accessed 2 Feb. 2018.

Wang, Bella. Kissel, Adam ed. "Kate Chopin’s Short Stories Bibliography." GradeSaver, 	GradeSaver.com. Accessed. 3 February 2018.

Whitney, Terri. “Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne.” Hawthorne in 	Salem, HawthorneinSalem.org. Accessed 3 February 2018.



