
A Rhetorical Analysis to “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou    
Maya Angelou wrote her excerpt “Letter to My Daughter” to tell her life experiences and to share a powerful message with all the women of the world. Angelou accomplished this task by relying on events from her past such as the struggles she faced while growing up. This message is addressed to all women especially those who have to face struggles such as teen pregnancy. She implemented rhetorical tools such pathos, ethos, and other rhetorical tools to get her message across. In Letter to My Daughter, Angelou explains that the title refers to her "thousands of daughters" of every color, religion and race. Every woman no matter if they fat and thin, pretty and plain, gay and straight, educated and unlettered. I am talking to you all. Angelou shares her remarkable life experience addressed to every woman. Her down-to-earth wisdom with humility and candor calls upon women to play a special role in the process to lead the world to a better place. (Angelou, 2008)
Researchers have developed several types of rhetorical strategies or rhetorical devices for the sole purpose of being able to analysis writing and speeches at a deeper meaning. In the excerpt “Letter to My Daughter,” Maya Angelou uses vivid words and phrases to illustrate ethos, pathos and other rhetorical strategies in her story. It is only human nature that every time one engages in a conversation is to persuasive the other being or audience. Rhetorical strategies come into play with every conversation. As stated by Reijo Savolainen in his article "The use of rhetorical strategies in Q&A discussion” rhetorical tools involves more than just the basic ethos, pathos, and logos. However, ethos, pathos, and logos are the basis for every rhetorical strategy. Ethos appeals to the character of the writer as credible source of ideas and views. Ethos can appeal to the ethics, morals, standard, values, and principles of the writer and audience. Pathos draws on the emotion that is felt by the audience; emotion such as anger, pity, and love. Pathos cause the audience to let their emotion take move so in a way the audience persuades themselves with their own emotion.  Logos is the appeal to reason. Such appeal tends to focus on the content of the message and stresses the importance of facts and logical explanations.  These three rhetorical strategies are just the tip of the iceberg and can be broken down to specific appeals. (Savolainen, 2014) 
Some of the most common rhetorical strategies are the point of view and tone of an author writing. However, Savolainen states that rhetorical strategies are more flexible and a more open way to approach a communication. He claims this because he believes that rhetorical strategies are not confined to any use of linguistic expression. These linguistic expressions are the use of hyperbole and oxymoron. Savolainen also said that rhetorical strategies are not limited to the “instrumental, means-to-ends rationality” of expressions that have to do with specific tactic or technique. Rhetorical strategies are an intentional or unintentional way of which a communicator persuades the audiences to accept his message or point of view. (Savolainen, 2014) Rhetorical strategies include anaphora, metaphor, and allusion. When an author uses anaphora, their work is full of repetition of words or phrases that emphasize the main idea of the passage. Authors tend to use anaphora to get a specific point across. Writers such as Maya Angelou tend to use allusion in there writing to get their message across. An allusion is when a writer refers to a well-known work or famous person, place, or event. Allusions are done by writer to evoke the theme or tone of the word to help the reader understand the context.
 Angelou builds her story on ethos because she relays on character to get her message across. For instance, when she said “Don’t be a prisoner of ignorance" in this simple line she is relay on who she is to persuade the audience. She is not demand or forces the audience to do something rather she simply said what she believe to be true and allowing the audience to look at her credibility and be persuade on what she say based on her experience or credibility. Angelou whole excerpt “Letter to My Daughter” is full of statements that would be meaningless by themselves but due to credibility that Angelou has these statements become meaningful and allow her message to resonate with the audience. The tone Maya Angelou uses in “Letter to My Daughter” helps her message to be delivered with ease. As stated early Angelou message is an empowering one. The tone of her writing as she talks about her misfortunes in life are essential to the delivery of her message. She addresses the bad moments in her life with a clear and positive outlook. This tone in her writing is here to make the audience realize that bad moments do happen but instead of beating ourselves up about them one should take them as lessons and learn from them. That one must use these bad moments in life to grow and not to hinder growth. Overall, her message is back up with her credibility and the use of rhetorical tools.  
Angelou also uses pathos to convey emotions in her audience. Every word that Angelou writes is uniquely designed to stirring empowerment and wisdom. However, certain phrase only reside in the emotions of women. For example, when she said “Nine months later, I had a beautiful baby boy. The birth of my son caused me to develop enough courage to invent my life” (5). This quote exercise an abundance of emotions. Certainly, the male audience can understand how it feel when new life is born but only the female audience can truly understand how emotional giving life is. These few words convey more emotion in the female audience than any other quote from the excerpt. These two-line summary what the whole excerpt is about to the female audience. The idea that something so magical yet a burden could happen to someone who is at the worst condition and still success is very empowering.   
Angelou uses allusions and several other rhetorical strategies in her excerpts. In the excerpt Letter to My Daughter, Angelou illustrates her use of allusion when she talks about a great American novel written by Thomas Wolfe. Angelou says, “Thomas Wolfe warned in the title of America’s great novel that ‘You Can’t Go Home Again.’ I enjoyed the book but I never agreed with the title. I believe that one can never leave home. I believe that one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of one’s eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe. Home is that youthful region where a child is the only real living inhabitant. Parents, siblings, and neighbors, are mysterious apparitions, who come, go, and do strange unfathomable things in and around the child, the region’s only enfranchised citizen. We may act sophisticated and worldly but I believe we feel safest when we go inside ourselves and find home, a place where we belong and maybe the only place we really do” (1). At the beginning of this quote Angelou's introducing Thomas Wolfe novel to address her message. By address her message in this fashion she used allusion. In the same quote, Angelou’s addresses the title of the novel which is an appeal to the emotion because it refers to the idea that one is trap and can’t escape to the comfort of one’s home. Angelou later uses several metaphors to a paint a picture in the reader’s mind as to what she thinks home is. She said that “one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of one’s eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe” (1) she views  home as something that is within every human being because home is life, experiences, and troubles. 
 Many writers use fallacies in their writing either intentionally or unintentionally. Basically, logical fallacies are an error in reasoning but it’s present in such a way that it actually becomes persuasive. In Grant Collins article Friedman Fallacies, he argues that logical fallacies can be either illegitimate arguments or irrelevant points, but are often identified because they lack evidence that supports their claim. Most of the fallacies talked about by Collins are appeals to certain emotion or character. Collins talks about appeal to simplicity, appeal to authority, and appeal to vanity. (2) Appeal to authority is in a sense ethos because for one to use appeal to authority one must have power or credibility. Maya Angelou use similar fallacies to convey her message. 
 Angelou uses human nature and relatable events to connect with her audience. In the following quote, “we feel safest when we go inside ourselves and find home, a place where we belong and maybe the only place we really do (5) she uses the moralistic fallacies which states that if something is true than that other is true. For instincts, when she said that “we feel safest when we are inside ourselves and find home” this part is the premise while what follows is the conclusion that everybody feels safe at home. The use of a premise and conclusion create an argument and base on the information give it can fall into the informal fallacy category. (Collins, 4) Angelou also use the appeal to pity fallacy. The appeal to pity fallacy plays on the emotion of the audience. She uses this to get the attention of the audience. By addressing a misfortune, the audience feel pity or distress by what happen to her. After getting the reader's attention, she precedes reverse the pity fallacy by saying that what happen to her is nothing by an obstacle that can be overcome with ease.  For example, when she said, “When I find myself filling with rage over the loss of a beloved, I try as soon as possible to remember that my concerns and questions should be focused on what I learned or what I have yet to learn from my departed love. What legacy was left which can help me in the art of living a good life?” (4) she starts with the emotion of rage but also lost. She appeals by stating her lost but then bought the audience back with an explanation of how one should handle that type of situation. Another notable example of a fallacy is when Angelou said “Let's tell the truth to people. When people ask, 'How are you?' have the nerve sometimes to answer truthfully. You must know, however, that people will start avoiding you because, they, too, have knees that pain them and heads that hurt and they don't want to know about yours. But think of it this way: If people avoid you, you will have more time to meditate and do fine research on a cure for whatever truly afflicts you” (3).  This quote is an example of a straw man fallacy which is argument that is built on weak premises and conclusion and can easily be refuted.  Angelou is assuming that all or most of the people that answer the question are not being honest. The conclusion in this quote is stating that if people answer truthfully then people would avoid you and you will be able to do something true which is simply not true. 
Although the main message of Letter to My Daughter is about women empowerment Angelou does present that she was strong but she would of never survive if it was for the family that shaped her character and beliefs. Maya Angelou said “I never had to spend one-minute regretting giving birth to a child who had a devoted family led by a fearless, doting, and glorious grandmother. So, I became proud of myself” (8). The sole purpose of this to let all her daughter know that surviving and succeeding is important but that one cannot do it alone. She emphasized how crucial family is and the support of others. 
Having lived a life full of struggles and many experiences Maya Angelou has plenty of wisdom to share with her daughter of the world. The excerpt “Letter to My Daughter” was a magnificent piece of work because Angelou could let her voice and message resonate in every word. With the use of what researcher call rhetorical tools she could illustrate her life in a way that empowered everybody in her audience. The of use ethos and pathos were essential in this excerpt because without her credibility and emotional connection to the audience her message would have probably gone over the audience’s heads. 


 Word Cited 
Angelou, Maya. “Excerpt: Letter to my Daughter.” Signature, 1 Jan, 2012.
Grant, Colin. “Friedman Fallacies.” Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 10, no. 12, 1 Dec. 1991, pp. 
907–914.
Reijo Savolainen, (2014) "The use of rhetorical strategies in Q&A discussion", Journal of 
Documentation, Vol. 70 Issue: 1, pp.93-118,
