Tailoring Specific Tests for a Better Learning 
Testing can without a doubt be a valuable source of information to the professor on whether the student has learned the topic or not. It is well known that tests are designed to measure the knowledge and skills students learned in school or to determine the academic progress they have made over a period of time.  The article “A comparative analysis of common mistakes in achievement tests prepared by a school teacher and corporate trainers” by Ali Simsek states that “Tests development has been an important part of measurements and evaluation in an educational setting”. (Simsek, 477).  However, it's failing to analyze the actual knowledge of the individual. Having the opportunity to have a great approach to their education by tailoring specific tests to each individual for specific learning will enhance their needs in developing their actual knowledge of the material they show difficulty on. According to the article “This is only a test: a machine-graded improvement to the multiple-choice and true-false examination” By Daniel McAllister and Rebecca M. Guidice, introduce a new approach that can improve the nature of testing, and they gathered data to see what impact it had towards the students. Although it’s not the teacher’s job to help an individual by tailoring specific tests for specific learning, The schools are obligated to meet the needs of every student in mastering the subject. This way the students will start perceiving their knowledge by evaluating their skill on that subject rather than having tests on subjects they might not find as hard and achieve a passing score which is not fair to them. (McAllister, Guidice). Therefore, if instructors start focusing on tailoring a unique test to every student for specific learning it will provide them with meaningful learning in the topic they are studying on.
   Professors assume that testing is a reliable way to test every student's comprehension of the material being taught. But, what many professors do not know is that testing is an unreliable way of measuring the performance of each student on the given subject because many of these tests tend to show bias information on the true knowledge of every student. This way of testing is not helpful in identifying where the individual is having trouble on, so what Instructors should do is tailor each individual a specific test for specific learning by narrowing the subject down to the topics that the student may struggle on. By developing this new way of testing it will help enhance the way each student learns the material where it will benefit them on being able to start thinking critically on the topic they may show some trouble comprehending. By creating a unique way of testing it could encourage a better environment for learning for both student and professor. 
There are many ways to approach testing for specific learning, and one of the ways to approach a way of testing that will be beneficial in the learning process of a subject is shown by the author’s Evangelia Karagiannoppoulou and Noel Entwisle. Their article “Influences on personal understandings: Intentions, approaches to learning, perceptions of assessment, and a meeting of minds” argues an approach to a new way of testing by giving open-book exams to enhance learning and to encourage students to construct their own understandings. The concerns of testing give unprepared students the opportunity to guess the correct answer among a very limited set of possible answers where the instructor will have a difficult time determining which student really understood the topic. They go on to show the studies they conducted about the influence the open-book exam brought to the students’ knowledge. The open-book exams given weren’t straightforward, the exams provided them with critical thinking rather than having the answer just in front of them. (Karagiannoppoulou, Entwisle).
As the article implies Evangelia Karagiannoppoulou and Noel Entwisle established a new way of testing that would help each student think critically with the open-book exams.             The research they conducted consist of exploring the reaction of four students who would be taking the open-book exam. This exam given will focus to develop their understandings on subjects they struggle on. In this study, all four students thought that the open-book tests would be an easy A,  however they were wrong because each student failed this open book test. After the open book test, the students in this study showed a better understanding of the topic being taught after the test was being administered in a way that would improve their learning on the subject. By tailoring open-book tests the study showed that it helped each student gain a new skill of taking down the difficult subjects by the use of critical thinking rather than just using their notes and textbooks. Also, it will benefit them in the long run if they learn to think critically with the open-book tests because it could further develop their knowledge and with this experience, they would eventually succeed on closed-book tests. This would teach them how to take on the hard question of any given tests because it will further develop their knowledge of the material they struggle on. The study conducted showed how beneficial the tailoring of specific tests for specific learning was for each student. (Karagiannoppoulou and Entwisle). 
Considering the importance of public education, it’s understandable that many teachers would be hesitant to make a change in their system of testing due to the many difficulties they may go through creating a unique test that would satisfy each of the students learning needs. Those who oppose the idea of tailoring specific test for specific learning only care to see if their educational policies are working as intended. Professors may rely on tests, that all test takers are required to answer the same set of inquiries, to determine whether their teaching strategy is working or not, or to compare their performance on the test and use the results to persuade other instructors that their teaching method is the best due to results they receive from students test scores. However, this isn’t helping the student’s success in the subject. There are two reasons why people become teachers to show off their success and to show off their failures. Where mainly they are showing their failures by failing the student’s actual knowledge. Although they are not obligated to hand out personalized tests to every individual the tests professors give out to students is not doing them anything fair because the test they are given does not provide accurate results of their knowledge. 
 According to the article “A comparative analysis of common mistakes in achievement tests prepared by the school teacher and corporate trainers” by Ali Simsek, teaching is about helping students achieve specified learning objectives. Teachers and instructors are primarily responsible for assessing student learning and evaluating instructions, there is a widespread concern about the quality of assessment. It has been reported that teachers and trainers are not competent enough to develop achievement tests. As this article explains, professors have common mistakes in tests making by having irrelevant or easily avoidable options in a test, such a process avoids alternate thinking which eventually helps students answer the questions when in fact they do not know what the correct response is. This is also reducing item difficulty, that particularly is undesirable when mastery on the learning task is important. (Simsek).
This article showed that teachers will oppose the idea of tailoring specific tests for specific learning because they will have a difficult time addressing a personalized test for every student. It is not easy creating a test that will have information a student needs to profound on the subject because many students do well on the homework. However, by quizzing the student on every subject before the test it helps the instructor identify what subject they are showing trouble on. This will help the professor identify the many gaps in the different type of topics that each student needs learning in the process of their academic achievements in the course material. Eventually, once the instructors find out what subject each student shows signs of struggle, it would help the teacher identify and establish unique types of questions that would help the individual in the process of learning the topic being taught.
Instructors may disagree about the idea to give students specific learning tests because it's time-consuming. The article “Students’ Initial Knowledge State and Test Design: Towards A Valid and Reliable Test Instrument” by Antonio Roland, a Professor from the College of Business Administration of the University of the East, states that “Designing a test is not an easy task for a teacher” because it involves specifications that should reflect or measure every student’s learning. (Roland, 190).  If a single class has a big number of students the instructor won’t be able to complete writing a test for every individual. A good test has some characteristic qualities: validity and reliability” to show how effective the test is, and it's a way of classifying test questions as they progress in difficulty. “It is important to note that designing a good test instrument involves specifications, test construction, validation, try-out, analysis, and revision. The designed test instrument did not only reveal the baseline knowledge of the students, but also notes strengths, weakness, and defects of the test instrument through the analysis of the test scores in order to come up with a better test instrument”. (Roland, 193). With proper training, teachers will be able to understand that their usual ways of teaching and the time they give for assignments may benefit the learning of their student in the academic course. They will see more students passing and developing the knowledge of that particular subject they had difficulty on. This will improve their task of mastering this subject.
The educational system is critical to the learning of many students in the United States. Where some students strive to do their best in learning the material but many other students only excel in the homework on any given subject while on the test they don’t do as good due to a topic they have difficulty on. Reasons that show why testing is not a reliable way of measuring one’s performance is because taking tests only evaluates the proficiency of a student only during the time of the test. Also, many tests that are difficult for a student leads them to always go with the answer C on the any given hard questions. Back in High School, the teachers would say to always go with C if you find a question difficult because some answers are actually C on the test they are given. This is failing the student on the subject they have not yet mastered. Even though there are several professors that provide various opportunities to pass the exams it won’t help the student at all because the questions might change the time they take the next assessment. Instead of being opportunistic and eager to garner more knowledge, students become more focused on the material they most likely failed which won't help them any bit. The testing format should change for it could have an impact on the students learning of the material. 
Testing can provide a powerful motivation for students and valuable feedback on whether their teaching resulted in the learning desired by the teacher. The critiques of the article “This is only a test: a machine-graded improvement to the multiple-choice and true-false examination” by Daniel McAllister and Rebecca M. Guidice suggests that the goal of teaching is to successfully facilitate learning. Their approach is to introduce a new approach that can improve the nature of testing. As the article explains, this new type testing approaches the concerns they may have on testing because it gives unprepared students the opportunity to guess the correct answer among a very limited set of possible answers where the instructor will have a difficult time determining which student really understood the topic. It is generally accepted that testing format has a meaningful impact on learning. Rather than favoring simple memorization, as is common with multiple-choice and true-false tests,  the objective was to introduce a format that was more conducive to learning much like that found on short-answer and essay exams but more efficiently graded. While the understanding of the usefulness of modified-matching is in the formative stage, they hope that their future research will be encouraged to further the dialog as well as continue to examine its impact on students’ knowledge and skill development. ( McAllister and Guidice).
Many countries have developed their own unique type testing their students. This has helped every the respective country to do better in their education system. While the United States is falling behind other countries are moving forward in their education system.  Teachers should write individualized questions, taking into account the student’s best and worst subjects. If a student is good in physics, so let's just give him a slightly tougher question. While on a subject the student has difficulty on let's give them tests mainly on that area of the topic. An example of this type of testing is Finland where they put trust in its teachers and principals. Teachers in Finland develop the curriculum and design their own tests. There are no national tests, except one at the end of high school. According to the article “PISA in Finland: An Education Miracle or an Obstacle to Change?” by Pasi Sahlberg, In the year 2000, the Finns surprised the world when their 15-year-olds scored at the top of a closely watched international exam called the PISA, the Program for International Student Assessment. Finland has stayed near the top ever since, while the U.S. scores around the middle. (Pasi). By tailoring specific test learning to each individual it will help each student gain a better understanding of the subject they haven't yet mastered. In Turkey, they also took an approach of tailoring the specific type of tests to their students.
There are many ways to tailor tests to many individuals that show struggle on the material they are learning during in the course. The article “Examining Differential Item Functions of Different Item Ordered Test Forms According to Item Difficulty Levels” by Omay Cokluk, Emrah Gul, and Cilem Dogan-Gul, state that tests are frequently used to explore individual academic performances, educational needs, and curriculum assessment. In Turkey, they carry out large-scale assessments, such as Transition to Higher Education Examination (YGS) and Public Personnel Selection Examination (KPSS), where test forms are produced with different item orders for each examination, and these forms are presented as “personally identifiable booklets.” This is considered to give positive outcomes in the students learning, although this approach might produce negative outcomes. The study conducted examined whether the outcome would meet their expectations in learning the material by the feedback of every test. (Cokluk, Gul, Dogan-Gul).
Although testing is commonly used in most schools and establishments nowadays, it does not measure one’s intelligence. With this, testing should be revoked because, not only is it an unreliable way of measuring the performance level of a student, it also creates a grade conscious mindset and pressures educators. Schools should focus more on the development of a student's knowledge. The standards on testing can be ludicrously and unrealistic by tailoring each individual a unique test but it would benefit their learning in the subject. Tests today are a good thing, but it mainly focuses more on memorization than knowledge. The knowledge gained from a night of cramming will be all but forgotten the day after the test. That is where teachers are setting their students to failure, tests are an opportunity to teach correctly the meaning of success through teaching each student a subject they may have difficulty on.  In order to identify gaps in student learning and academic progress, the instructor should be able to administer tests for specific learning to each student which will provide meaningful studying in the learning of the concept they struggle with. Not only tests are an undependable way of grading, but also, it does not promote life skills the child will need when growing up.

















Work Cited
Çokluk, Ömay, et al. "Examining Differential Item Functions of Different Item Ordered 
Test Forms According to Item Difficulty Levels." Educational Sciences: Theory and Practice,  vol. 16, no. 1, 01 Feb. 2016, pp. 319-330. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1101196&site=ehost-live.
CoPo, Antonio Roland I. "Students' Initial Knowledge State and Test Design: Towards a 
Valid and Reliable Test Instrument." Journal of College Teaching & Learning, vol. 12, no. 3, 01 Jan. 2015, pp. 189-194. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1067277&site=ehost-live.
Karagiannopoulou, Evangelia and Noel Entwistle. "Influences on Personal Understanding:
Intentions, Approaches to Learning, Perceptions of Assessment, and a "Meeting of   Minds." Psychology Teaching Review, vol. 19, no. 2, 01 Sept. 2013, pp. 80-96. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1149736&site=ehost-live.
McAllister, Daniel and Rebecca M. Guidice. "This Is Only a Test: A Machine-Graded    
Improvement to the Multiple-Choice and True-False Examination." Teaching in Higher    Education, vol. 17, no. 2, Apr. 2012, pp. 193-207. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/13562517.2011.611868.
Sahlberg, Pasi. "PISA in Finland: An Education Miracle or an Obstacle to Change?." Center for 
Educational Policy Studies Journal, vol. 1, no. 3, 01 Jan. 2011, pp. 119-140. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1130792&site=ehost-live.
