Free College: A Possible Reality or A Myth?
In past decades, the high school diploma held more of an advantage in the job market than it currently holds. The decrease in value has caused the increase in demand of higher education however, with prices of attending college on the rise, there is an inability for some to afford higher education. There have been many proposals put forth on how to solve this issue of cost such as limiting how much colleges can charge and increasing the amount of college covered by the state. In fact, a plethora of political leaders have recently made their platforms on the idea of free college. Senator Bernie Sanders and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton have specific ways of achieving this notion. Bernie Sanders wishes to make public college free for every american through adding a tax on Wall Street transactions. His proposal pays the tuition of any public university for any student and will cover the living expenses for low-income families (“On the Issues: It's Time to Make College Tuition Free and Debt Free.”). On the other hand, Hillary Clinton wishes to make public college tuition-free for those whose families make under $125,000 and the means of attaining this extra money would be increasing higher-income tax rates (“Making College Debt-Free and Taking on Student Debt.”). Although tuition free college may seem like an easy solution to the problem of the costs associated with attending college, its supporters fail to take the whole picture into account. Free public college certainly will not be a quick fix to the problem as it is described to be and would most likely have a detrimental effect on the college system. 
Free college will alter the way in which public universities receive their money. Rather than ask for a certain tuition from students to meet the financial needs of the academic school year based on enrollment and costs to run the school, universities become subjects to the money that the federal and state governments allot them. The article, “The Cost of ‘Free’ College”, by Dr. Andrew P. Kelly discusses possible failures of the free college system and touches on the limited money supply. In this he argues that colleges will only be able to enroll the amount of students the federal and state governments pay for. If enrollment increases at a higher rate than is expected or the cost of educating students increases it could very well lead to limiting enrollment (Kelly). The result of free college could very well lessen the amount of students in college and with that lacks the very thing the movement is trying to do: bring more students to college.  
To back up this claim, Dr. Kelly gives an example of the college system in the United Kingdom. “Before the late 1990s, public universities in the U.K. were directly funded on a per-pupil basis, and students paid no fees to attend. Enrollment numbers were closely regulated, and institutions that over-recruited had to pay penalties. As a result, student demand consistently outstripped available slots. Eventually, tight public budgets and rising student demand led the British government to introduce fees of £1,000 per student (with exemptions for low- and middle-income students) and to increase those fees over time.” (Kelly para. 19-23). The evolution of the college system in the United Kingdom is a perfect example of what Kelly warns could happen to American higher education if free college becomes a reality. The amount of money that colleges get could limit the amount of students that are actually able to be educated with that money. As a result, the very people the program wishes to reach may not be reached and the system may be reverted back to how it currently is or if kept could lead to much higher requirements to be accepted to schools. 
The federal government will heavily influence the public university system since they fund the system. Some feel this is a good thing as it may build up and fix what some public schools lack however a large difference between college and high school is there are no set standards. There is no Common Core, or nationwide set of standards for public colleges. All colleges are different and that is a reason high school seniors visit different colleges. They get to see which campus and college lifestyle fits their needs. If the colleges were forced to assimilate to one basic college they would lose the things that makes college college: diversity.  Diversity would have to take a seat to what the feds says if government paid for college. Each college could not spend on what makes it unique but only what the government allows and since the government cannot pick and choose different rules for each college, universities will began to become the same. Free college alleviates a lot of competition to be the best school. Colleges will have less incentive to be innovative and will hope that their student do not follow in the same footsteps. 
If this idea became a reality, public schools would receive funding where private colleges would not receive any, resulting in drawing students to the free public colleges option over private universities. This does not seem like such a bad thing from a money perspective however, there are prestigious private universities that suit students’ needs and academic levels better than public universities. Andrew P. Kelly brings this argument against free college in his article as he explains how some students would be pulled to go to free public schools over higher-quality private schools solely based on money. These types of students would be getting a better education at these private schools yet attend public universities because the price tag isn’t there. He then goes on to say that students who attend a lower-quality college than they could take actually can hurt their degree completion time (Kelly). Students who are more academically inclined should be going to more prestigious universities in order to push themselves rather than be surrounded by students who are not generally on the same academic level as them.
Only covering the cost of tuition fails to consider all of the other costs of attending college that stop people from attending. The article “FREE TUITION DOESN'T MEAN FREE COLLEGE Students Point Out” explains this with examples of expenses in New York. Listing statistics from New York colleges, the author Carolyn Thomas argues that free tuition will not equate directly to free college as tuition is only about one-third of the total cost of attending college. She goes on to give these statistics to support her argument, “That's because tuition, at around $6,500 a year, is just about a third of the typical four-year student's total public college bill in New York. Room and board are the bigger-ticket items at nearly $13,000 a year, and student fees and books tack on another $3,000” (Thomas). Tuition is a sizable portion of college costs but is not close to covering all of the costs of a college student.  It is worth noting that costs will vary state by state as the cost to live in each state will be different. Regardless, this data points out the fact that there are other expenses of college that will continue to halt people from attending college. Thus, the government solely covering tuition is not a solution because it fails to consider the other costs of attending college that hold students back. 
	In the article, “What’s Wrong with Guaranteeing a Free Education?”, by Stephen M. Krason, he gives a variety of reasons of why government paid college is not a good idea and will hurt the higher education system. He does this by questioning the necessity of higher education in life and compares it to the food that those who are starving need. He argues that this money should be going to the hungry rather than pay for americans’ college education (Krason 1). This touches on the conversation of how the government spends its tax money which can be quite controversial based on beliefs and backgrounds. Yet, when looking at the idea of free college through this lense it makes a pretty good case against the expenditure of a great amount of money on college and sheds light on maybe more demanding areas.
As mentioned in the introduction, the proposed way to pay for free public college is through adding taxes. Sander’s tax has to do with an increase on Wall Street transactions (“On the Issues: It's Time to Make College Tuition Free and Debt Free.”) where Clinton’s tax would be on those with higher income (“Making College Debt-Free and Taking on Student Debt.”). Both of which tax those with generally more money to provide higher education. Our tax system in America already taxes the rich a higher percentage that those with less. These people are already paying more money in taxes and just because people have money does not mean it is right to take it to pay for other people’s college. In Clinton’s theory for obtaining money to fund tuition-free college, those that are paying the tax are not even covered in its benefits. Those that make over $125,000 would not only be slated to be burdened with this tax but would not even reap the benefits as they will still have to pay for their own children’s college education. In regards to Bernie Sander’s proposal, Krason asks a pertinent question, “Why should the taxpayers—many of whom are of more modest means—have to foot the bill so others who may come from more financially advantaged backgrounds can have a free ride and the chance to advance far beyond them in material success?” (Krason 1). Krason makes an excellent point as those who are paying for the next generation to go to college are basically giving them the chance to prosper more in life than a lot of these taxpayer had. 
	The current rate of graduation with a bachelors from a four-year public institution within six years was 59 percent from 2009-2015 (“Undergraduate Retention and Graduation Rates”). 
With a majority of these students paying for college only 59% graduated within six years--which is two more years longer than expected graduation path of four years. Imagine the graduation rate if the students could go to school without money holding them accountable to their studies. There really would be nothing holding students accountable other than their own desire to get a degree. However, proponents of free college actually argue the opposite that free education will actually speed up the graduation time as college students are not be barred down by having to work and go to school. A study of the German public school system titled “Tuition fees and the time to graduation: evidence from a natural experiment” concludes that public colleges in Germany that had tuition finished their degree at a faster rate than those that were free. German states had tuition banned for public colleges from 1976 to 2005. In 2005, seven out of the sixteen German states reintroduced tuition and created the base for the experiment. The study recorded the time it took for students to graduate in states where tuition was permitted and not. The results yielded data that those who were paying money for college finished at a more efficient rate, 0.15 years, than those who were in the free college system (Bruckmeier 459, 460, 466,467). Although a relatively small change, the average time of graduation did decrease when tuition was involved in Germany which backs the claim that students finish college faster when they are paying for it. 
	Another problem associated with free college is the availability of degrees it creates. This is addressed in Stephen M. Krason’s article as well. He states, “It would also likely intensify another troubling trend of the last several decades: overcredentialism. With more people having easy access to higher education, possessing a college degree will become the minimal requirement to enter more and more kinds of jobs—regardless of whether college training is truly needed or even relevant for them” (Krason 4). Theoretically, if everyone had a degree in the United States, its value would diminish greatly. Now, that will not happen regardless of college  being free or not however with degrees being easier to access it makes them less valuable since more people will get them. A simple supply and demand concept from economics. The more degrees supplied, the less value it holds. This can lead to overall lower wages or raise the need for postgraduate degrees. Krason in this quote addresses the dilemma of employers demanding higher education than what jobs need or for jobs that higher education is not even needed for. 
	The central hope and goal of this idea of free higher education is to provide more people, especially people with low-income a chance to attend a university that they otherwise could not have done so. In regards to low-income students, the government already has federal and state programs in effect like FAFSA and various types of grants in order to provide for these students. With programs like these, there is no need to provide tuition-free college for these particular students. As mentioned earlier, college does have more costs than just tuition and these added costs can be a barrier for some low-income students. However, college kids all over the nation have to live off of bare bones even if they have tuition paid for by other means. These kids are not included in Sander’s model of paying for all financial related areas involved with college. Once you start supplying government money for tuition-free college there is not really a cutoff to the number that can be given money for things beyond tuition. Setting an income level cutoff could just give incentive for them not to work just to get free money. Also, free-college may not actually guarantee a higher number of students as pointed to earlier in Kelly’s article,  it is based on how much the government gives to the school that will determine enrollment (Kelly para. ). To take the other route of the government providing enough money to increase enrollment. The value of degrees will drop due to the ability to attain one as Krason explained in his article (Krason 4). This is counterproductive to the proponents goals of providing higher education to more as it will decrease wages as people could be paid less due to the inflation of degrees.	
	The rising college debts that Americans graduate with is also a reason why free college sounds like a solution. Towering debt is certainly not a good thing to have on a college graduate’s shoulders but this can be a learning experience that free college would alleviate. When living under debt, college students learn to live cheaper lives which can come in handy for the rest of their lives. It teaches students how to responsibly handle their own money where government paid college does not put as much pressure on it. Also, students need to be aware of the debt they will be going into when they get their degree. This should be factored in when they select their college as well. A student who is planning on going into a job that doesn’t pay as well should not go to a private university where they have the potentially of going into six-figure debt whereas students who are seeking high paying professions have more reason to go to a more expensive university. 
	Creating a system of free-college is certainly not a feasible option to fix the issue with cost of higher education. Not only will it fail to significantly increase enrollment, creating free-college will disrupt the college system as it changes the way in which colleges are able to spend their money. Free-college would unify the public college system by forcing them to be on the same standards, thus making them high school 2.0. The value of degrees can also go down as an effect of more people. With all this in mind, free college is not the answer to the problems of overall high costs and the inability for some to afford college. These are two problems that need to be addressed in the college system and legislators need to take into account all of these points when considering future amendments to solve them. 
			
	















Works Cited
Bruckmeier, Kerstin, et al. "Tuition Fees and the Time to Graduation: Evidence from a Natural 
Experiment." Journal of Higher Education Policy & Management, vol. 37, no. 4, Aug. 
2015, pp. 459-471. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/1360080X.2015.1056596. Date accessed 29 October 2017. 
Kelly, Andrew P. "The Cost of 'Free' College." National Review, vol. 67, no. 19, 19 Oct. 
2015, pp. 39-42. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&A N=110075007&site=ehost-live. Date accessed 28 October 2017. 
Krason, Stephen M. "What's Wrong with Guaranteeing a Free College Education?." Catholic 
Social Science Review, vol. 22, Jan. 2017, pp. 395-398. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=124789147&site=ehost-live.
“Making College Debt-Free and Taking on Student Debt.” The Office of Hillary Rodham 
Clinton, www.hillaryclinton.com/issues/college/.
“On the Issues: It's Time to Make College Tuition Free and Debt Free.” Bernie Sanders, 
live-berniesanders-com.pantheonsite.io/issues/its-time-to-make-college-tuition-free-and-debt-free/.
Thompson, Carolyn. "FREE TUITION DOESN'T MEAN FREE COLLEGE Students Point 
Out." The Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education, vol. 27, no. 8, May, 2017, pp. 14-15, Ethnic NewsWatch, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1903884266?accountid=10349.
“Undergraduate Retention and Graduation Rates .” The Condition of Education - Postsecondary 
Education - Programs, Courses, and Completions - Undergraduate Retention and 
Graduation Rates - Indicator April (2017), nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_ctr.asp. Date accessed 28 October 2017.
