I use social media to catch up on the latest trends, get news and talk to my friends. Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat and other Social Media platforms make it easy to stay up to date with everything that goes on in the world. Eventhough social media is a wonderful thing, it can also be harmful. Lori Andrews, in her essay “Facebook Is Using You”, believes that Facebook and other similar platforms invade personal space, stereotype their users, and make too much money off of their users.
	Facebook invades its user’s personal space according to Andrews. She says that they want to know every small detail about their users. Facebook uses location services to see where users reside. They then use those locations to determine appropriate ads for the user. Facebook sees everything that its users do even while not on their website. They look at google searches and other things that get pulled up on the user’s internet, phone or computer. All of this happens without the users permission in the United States. They are allowed to pull up whatever they want about a user without getting consent to do so. This is definately an invasion of privacy and personal space. If someone did these things to another person in real life, it would be considered stalking or harassment.
	Facebook and other similar platforms stereotype their users. Andrews uses an example of a person looking at a guitar online. They click on an ad and browse for a while. Facebook may be aware of the stereotype that guitar players are lazy, slackers who cant make or save up any money. This would then prompt Facebook then show that person an ad for a low interest credit card or an agency that will help to relieve debt. They also use sex as a stereotype. Facebook may notice that a woman is a user on their website and pop up an ad claiming to catch a cheating boyfriend, Andrews also points out. A person in a low income area could also be shown ads or posts of how they can “turn their life around” and get on the correct path. Stereotyping users is unacceptable behavior from the company.
	Social media sites, including Facebook, make too much money off of their users. Andrews said, at the time that she wrote this piece, that Facebook made 3.2 Billion dollars in total advertising revenue. In 2011, they made 36.5 Billion dollars off of ads alone the prior year. That was 58% of their total revenue. Lori Andrews points out that Facebook uses the personal data from their users to target the ads. This urges a user to click on an ad that pertains to their own life. Using this tactic is trickery. It’s an underhanded way to make billions of dollars off of innocent people.
	In Lori Andrews’ essay “Facebook Is Using You”, she points out how Facebook invades the personal space of their users, stereotype their users, and make too much money off of their users. Facebook uses location, sex, google searches, and other tools to collect data from their users. From there the data is processed and sorted out. The ads that come from the data stereotype the user and entise them to click on the ad. Once the user has clicked on the ad, Facebook makes instant money off of it. The way that Facebook and other social media platforms use their users to make money is not appropriate at all and it shouldnt be legal to do so.