
Human vs. Jaws
A fearful mindset of the public is leading to the destruction of the shark population, while the fact remains to find the best way for humans and sharks to co-exist peacefully while inhabiting the same space. The rising shark population off the east coast is leading to more human-shark interactions; however the risk for shark attacks still remains relatively low in relation to other accidents people face daily. Sources discuss the possible reasons behind this increase of interaction and relate them to how the media influences the public’s opinion on sharks. Most sources agree that increased interaction between sharks and humans is due to biological factors, though differing in what these factors are; some suggest population increase of the prey these sharks feed in correspondence to an increased amount of people in the water in these feeding areas as well as other environmental factors. Another source argues that the main biological factor is connected to the chemistry and function of the human brain. The overlying element in this argument is how the media influences the public’s response to the sharks. 
According to most sources the increase of interaction between sharks and humans is due to biological factors. Some researchers say that the sharks “are being drawn to Cape Cod's waters because seals, their favourite food, have dramatically rebounded there, thanks to a 1972 law that made it illegal to kill them” (Philip and Smith). The promise of prey lures sharks closer into shore, coincidentally into the same shore that beach-goers are inhibiting. Another source agrees that “changes in the abundance of prey (e.g. seals and whales), which may increase the spatial overlap between relevant shark species and water users” is a highly potential cause, though it may not be the sole factor (Chapman and McPhee). The research done also alludes to the fact that there are environmental factors in play, like water currents, water circulation and runoff; such climate related factors influence the density of both the shark population and the population of their prey (Chapman and McPhee). Enriching the waters with nitrogen, increasing productivity in the food chain, draws the prey in, as well as the predators. Other environmental elements stated is the temperature, which can elongate a southern dwelling species habitat range farther north as waters continue to warm. All of these combined biological factors are increasing the amount of sharks in the water human’s inhabit as well.
However, one of Chapman and McPhee’s major points in their research on unprovoked shark attacks is a different biological factor: that there are simply more humans using the same spaces the sharks are. The warmer waters drawing more sharks north are the same thing that is drawing more people to the water. Chapman and McPhee state that “this paper has generally supported the increase in human population, and by extension, the increase in water users as being a factor that contributes substantially to the trend of unprovoked shark bite” (Chapman and McPhee). Though they state that it is not the sole reason for unprovoked attacks, they emphasize that it is an important factor in the increase of interaction between sharks and humans. 
David Ropeik, a researcher at Harvard University claims that the connection between humans’ fear of sharks is rooted in the human brain. Ropeik explains how one would expect a Florida native to fear the ocean’s top predator, and the landlocked New Yorker to not think twice about the possibility of a shark attack; however research shows that the Florida native shows little to no fear with the thought that they could come face to face with “Jaws” during their beach trip as opposed to the New Yorker who is nothing short of terrified. Ropeik attributes this to the “lazy-brain”; in the sense that humans tend to think and act upon emotions first then thought or logic second (Palermo). The ways the connections and pathways in the human brain handle information create short cuts for reactions and responses, which often happen very quickly. These short cuts that the brain uses are what Ropeik acknowledges as the reason humans fear sharks. Ropeik alludes to the fact that since the brain makes decisions quickly, not all the facts of the situation are taken into account, often times allowing the situation to be misinterpreted.
The media plays a crucial role in the way these sharks are portrayed. Hollywood films blow the predator up on the big screen, such as the case in the 1970’s movie Jaws, while documentaries and other news media dominate the smaller scale. The public uses these sources as guidance to how they view sharks. When these media forms take the interactions with humans and sharks into account, there are several sides of the story to tell.
One side of the story and perhaps the most well documented and well-known, is the sensation of the role sharks play in the horror genre of the film industry.  There have been countless horror films starring sharks as the main antagonist, Jaws being one of the most well-known. This movie swayed the public’s opinion on sharks so much that “in the years after the movie's release, the number of so-called kill tournaments spiked”, causing shark populations drastically decrease (Lovgren). As more shark themed horror movies continue to arise on the Hollywood scene, it is important that this creates a spark of interest and curiosity in the public to learn more about sharks; not to write them off as mindless killers.
While most of the public recognizes the works of Hollywood as fiction, many still rely on nature documentaries to paint an accurate picture of these animals. It can be shown that most documentaries use ominous music when playing footage of sharks, the opinion of the public can be swayed. A study done to determine the effects of the background music had on the viewers of a documentary showed that participants who viewed the footage of sharks swimming to ominous background music tended to rank their attitude towards sharks more negatively, than the participants who watched the same footage, but set to either uplifting or silent background music (Gneezy et al). This research shows the importance the media has on the public’s opinion of sharks. Another study shows that “Personal experience with sharks, general marine interest and media coverage of shark issues appear to be important factors shaping…” the mindset humans have concerning sharks (Friedrich et al). Attitude is heavily swayed by what the individual believes to be true and most credible, which gives reason as to why documentaries and personal experiences are important factors in determining how sharks are perceived. 
The biological factors of increased interactions among sharks and humans vary among sources, but the media, despite the different forms, greatly impact the way the public views sharks. While the causation of these interactions may vary, it is important that the media uses its vast outreach and power to break the negative connotation many people have with sharks. Biological factors fluctuate over time and over different areas causing the shark population in those areas and points in time to fluctuate as well, leading to a variance of human-shark interactions. As these interactions change over space and time, it is important to remember that both species are sharing the water, and that respect and recognition is key for coexistence. 

Works Cited
Chapman, Blake and Daryl McPhee. “Global shark attack hotspots: Identifying underlying 
factors behind increased unprovoked shark bite incidence.” Ocean & Coastal Management, vol, 133, 2016, pp. 72-84, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0964569116302058?via%3Dihub. Accessed 4 October 2017.
Friedrich, Laura, et al. “Public perceptions of sharks: Gathering support for shark conservation.” 
Marine Policy, vol. 47, 2014, pp. 1-7, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0308597X14000360?via%3Dihub. Accessed 7 October 2017.
Gneezy, Ayelet, et al. “The Effect of Background Music in Shark Documentaries on Viewers' 
Perceptions of Sharks.” PLoS One, vol. 11, 2016, https://search-proquest-com.liblink.uncw.edu/central/docview/1808601611/fulltextPDF/1BEF308039BC4567PQ/3?accountid=14606. 
Lovgren, Stefan. “"Jaws" at 30: Film Stoked Fear, Study of Great White Sharks.” National 
Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2005/06/0615_050615_jawssharks.html. Accessed 4 October 2017.
Palermo, Elizabeth. “Why Are People So Afraid of Sharks?” Live Science, 
https://www.livescience.com/51579-fear-of-sharks-psychology.html.
Accessed 5 October 2017.
Philip, Marcelo and Bruce Smith. “Shark alert! Tech shows growing great white shark 
population along the East Coast.” Telegraph-Journal, Saint John N.B., 31 May 2016, https://search-proquest-com.liblink.uncw.edu/central/docview/1792466605/FE71688433F42EAPQ/1?accountid=14606. Accessed 3 October 2017
