                                                                             Corn Casserole
A family favorite that I make for every Thanksgiving and Christmas dinner is corn casserole. It is a very simple recipe that is always a big hit and is quick and simple to make. Plus, the corn casserole has a whole stick of butter so that makes it ten times more delicious. The ingredients for this dish requires the following:  8 oz. sour cream, can of corn(undrained), can of cream corn, stick of butter(melted) , box of Jiffy corn muffin mix and 2 eggs. The kitchen items that are needed are: An 8 by 8 inch pan, spoon, cooking spray, can opener, a big bowl, a whisk, and two small bowls. 
	 Firstly, get the ingredients ready to bake. Set the oven to 350 degrees fahrenheit then proceed to preparing the ingredients. Use the smaller bowl and put the butter in it to melt in the microwave; cook as much as needed until it is melted in the bowl.Then, get out the two eggs and put them in the other small bowl and whisk together until smooth. Retrive the 8 by 8 baking pan and spray with cooking oil so the corn casserole slides right out when it’s time to eat. Set out the can of corn, creamed corn, sour cream and Jiffy corn muffin mix. 
Second step is to mix all the ingredients in the big mixing bowl. Make sure the can of corn is not drained and dump it in the bowl. Do the same with the can of cream corn and then empty the entire 8 ounce sour cream into the bowl. Then, get the smaller bowl that has the melted butter and put that into the big bowl. Retrive the whisked bowl of eggs and put that in there along with the butter. The one thing a person should not forget is the Jiffy corn muffin mix which is an important part because if it was not in it, the casserole would be more like a soup. Stir together until the mixture is creamy and smooth.
Lastly, bake the corn casserole. Put the pan into the oven which can be cooked with another dish like mashed potatoes if this is being baked for a holiday. Bake for 60 minutes and make sure the top is a light golden brown. After the hour mark, check to make sure the dish is thoroughly cooked by sticking a toothpick in it and make sure its clean when it is pulled out. If it is still gooey in the center, bake for another ten minutes or so. When it is finished, take it out and let it cool for about 30 minutes then serve and enjoy.