An Apple a Day Keeps the Microsoft Away
It’s almost common knowledge in this age of technology that two very popular platforms (both for desktop and for mobile) are in constant competition in regards to which is the best. I, oddly enough, find myself inclined to use Apple’s mobile devices (iPhone and Apple Watch), but prefer Microsoft’s desktop operating system (Windows). In the paragraphs to follow, I offer not an argument as to why one operating system is better than the other, rather, I aspire to explain the career of a software engineer at Apple Inc.
I’ve been intrigued by the iPhone for as long as I was old enough to understand what a cell phone was, and ever since then, I haven’t stopped. The iPhone is the only cell phone I’ve ever wanted, and I can’t see that changing soon. I had the exact same feelings for the Apple Watch. As for Mac, I grew up using Windows machines, but ever since I recently helped my girlfriend set up her MacBook Pro, I couldn’t stop obsessing over it; the hardware fits nicely in my hands, the software is gorgeous and easy to use, and I’m astounded at how the hardware and software work together almost seamlessly. It’s my strong love for these Apple products that make me want to work for them, and since I work better with software than with hardware, it would make sense to do software engineering for them.
According to Apple Inc., their software engineers need a strong background in object-oriented languages, Python, application development, development environments, the lifecycle of software development, and the command line across several operating systems. I would also need to have good communication skills, be able to work on a team, and be able to adapt to a high-paced, informal work environment. Good communication is a part of team work, but it’s also important to keep good communication with management and customers that have product feedback. This job is primarily located in California, but some are in Texas. This means that I would need to move, but regular traveling is not necessary. Required education is a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or equivalent experience. 
According to “Apple Salaries”, software engineers at Apple have a starting salary of $62,000 per year and averages at $122,100 per year. Additionally, employment of software engineers is projected to grow 17% from 2014 to 2024 (“Summary of Software Developers”). There are multiple ideas that could affect how I advance in this career, and they’re all based on three basic ideas; technical competence, professional communication, and getting credit for what I do (Lyons). It’s obvious that people advance in their respective career fields when they’re good at what they do, but it’s even more important to make sure management sees me in a good light and sees all of my accomplishments. For example, receiving good scores on yearly performance evaluations can be my “make it or break it” points in regard to advancing in my career.
A typical day in the life of a software engineer is never the same. The beginning of the day always starts with checking email to make sure there’s no urgent issue that needs to be taken care of right away. If there’s an urgent issue, the rest of the day will probably be spent trying to resolve the issue. If not, I may spend the beginning of my day doing a little training, such as reading technical forums that keep me up to date on the happenings in the technical world. This would be helpful since computer science is a constantly evolving field and there’s always new and better ways to accomplish tasks. The rest of the day is always up in the air. I could be attending meetings, trying to write code for an existing project, or debugging other programs (“A Day in the Life of a Software Developer”).
The work environment for software engineers is very dynamic, and that's due to the evolving nature of the computer science field. It’s important that I keep learning different techniques that will accomplish tasks in more efficient ways if I ever want to keep up with the field. As I’m going through my first computer science class, I understand how there are many different ways of accomplishing the same task, and it seems like a job field I can realistically enjoy. I’ve always been a good problem solver and I’m much more analytically oriented than creatively, which serves well in Computer Science. Apple has forever been my favorite technology company, and I’d be happy to one day be one of their software engineers.

Works Cited
“A Day in the Life of a Software Developer.” Madgex, Madgex, 16 Apr. 2013, us.madgex.com/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-software-developer.
“Apple Salaries.” Glassdoor, Glassdoor, 11 Oct. 2017, www.glassdoor.com/Salary/Apple-Salaries-E1138.htm.
“Summary of Software Developers.” U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 17 Dec. 2015, www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm.
Apple Inc. “Jobs at Apple.” Apple, Apple, 6 Sept. 2017, jobs.apple.com/us/search#&ss=Software%20Engineer&t=0&so=&lo=0*USA&pN=0&openJobId=112999632.
Lyons, Peter. “Peter Lyons.” Leveling Up: Career Advancement for Software Developers | Peter Lyons, peterlyons.com/leveling-up.
