
Dear Dr. Smith,

I’m probably not the first person to say I haven’t always been the world’s greatest, most organized, successful student— the first person to say that was probably my first-grade teacher—but I am saying it now, as an introduction. I did okay in high school, but to be honest, I don’t feel like I was incredibly successful. It’s not something I cry myself to sleep over or anything like that. It’s just something I really want to change for myself. That makes a lot of difference, wanting to change yourself, rather than being told to do it. But how am I going to do it? I hope I can explain that for you here.

Something that really stood out to me in Robert Leamnson’s Learning (Your First Job) was that you can't cheat your way into being successful; you have to understand things (3). The first part of my plan for succeeding in college is to learn. I've already started implementing this, by trying to study a lot more than I ever thought of doing in high school. In high school, I knew I was supposed to study, but I didn't really do it. That won't happen here. I plan to learn all the material, even for classes that don't interest me. This also goes along with the NCTE habit of mind, engagement, which is being active in acquiring knowledge (8). I’m not just going to sit idly by and hope I pass, but instead, I’ll work hard to learn what I need to learn.

The NCTE habits of mind also mentions persistence, which they say is staying focused on tasks (9). That’s another thing I always knew I was supposed to do, but which I haven’t really mastered. Often, even when I am doing something I like, I have trouble being persistent. There is always something to get distracted by, some reason to stop what I’m doing. It doesn’t matter if it’s math homework or a super-exciting new idea for a short story. Since this is such an issue, a big part of my plan for success in school and other things is to find a way to make myself keep working on everything I have to work on. My best idea for how to make that happen is to make schedules for myself. If I start to get distracted, the schedules will remind me what I’m supposed to be doing.

Another idea from the Leamnson essay that I find interesting is that people will always find time for the things that matter to them (5). If schoolwork matters to someone, they’ll fill up time with schoolwork. If watching Netflix is more important to them, they’ll watch Netflix. I’d love to sit here and write that schoolwork is what matters most to me, but my behavior doesn’t support a claim like that. I’m definitely closer to the Netflix-watcher camp. While there’s nothing wrong with spending time relaxing, since that keeps me from getting overwhelmed, I’m trying to be careful not to devote all my time to what I think sounds more entertaining. As great as Netflix is, not failing all of my classes is even better. In the schedule I mentioned before, I’ll

give myself time to relax, but not too much. It won’t be good if I lose track of how long I’ve been sitting around doing nothing, so I’ll avoid that.

The course goal from your syllabus that I plan to focus on is learning how to use different techniques to plan out my writing and improve it (Smith 1). It’s especially important for me to learn how to work with other people. My writing would definitely improve if I got more confident showing it to other people and asking for their advice. I’m going to have to do a lot of writing for the rest of my life, and there are bound to be a lot of mistakes that I miss. I will also have to work with people for the rest of my life, and I will have to know how to listen to their ideas, as well as be okay with telling them my ideas.

The final NCTE habit of mind I want to talk about is curiosity, wanting to understand and learn about things (5). I think I have this one mostly in the bag. When I get curious about something, I research it and read anything I can about it. Curiosity was how I decided on my major. I was curious about psychology, enough that I realized no matter how many books I took out from the library, I’d want to know more. To be successful, I’ll try to apply my natural curiosity to everything. Math isn’t my best subject, but maybe if I get curious and do my own research, I’ll get better at it.

I don’t know if I’ll be wildly successful. My goal right now is to get good grades, do some fun activities, graduate, and find a job that I like. More things will probably get added on as I learn more about what I need to do and what interests me. I think that everything I mentioned in this letter is transferrable to whatever I decide to do. Well, maybe they’re not transferrable to living in my parents’ basement when I’m in my 40s, but most people don’t dream of doing that. I definitely don’t.

Your student,

Sam Doe

Works Cited

Smith, Casey. “Foundations of Writing Syllabus.” “http://removed-this-url.com/”. Accessed 13

September 2017.

Leamnson, Robert. “Learning Your First Job.” Center for Teaching and Learning at the University of Georgia, “http://www.ctl.uga.edu/pages/learning-your-first-job”. Accessed 13 September 2017.

Council of Writing Program Administrators, National Council of Teachers of English, and the National Writing Project. “Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing.” Council of Writing Program Administrators, 11 Jan. 2011 “http://www.wpacouncil.org/framework”. Accessed 13 September 2017.