Purple Hibiscus: Reading Analysis
To what extremes will people go for a religion? In Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Purple Hibiscus, there is an evident example in which we see how much power, religion really has. The main character, Kambili speaks of her extremely Catholic Nigerian father, Eugene, who is also an authoritarian abusive father and husband.  Kambili narrates the many internal and external conflicts she experiences throughout the novel due to the institutionalized Catholicism her family and she were exposed to. Eugene shows the power of religion when as he almost hits Jaja, hits his wife and kids with a belt, and pours boiling hot water on Kambili all with the excuse of wanting to save them.
Adichie begins by exposing her audience the abusive environment in which Kamibili lives in. As the narrative continues, Adichie ironically introduced her audience to Eugene, as a wealthy, righteous and charitable Catholic. After realizing his son, Jaja did not go up to receive communion, Eugene waits to get home to punish his son. Eugene explains to Jaja the importance of the host, “It is the body of our Lord.” (Adichie 6). According to Britannica, Roman Catholicism, “the Eucharist was a repetition of the common meal of the local group of disciples with the addition of the bread and the cup signifying the presence of Jesus” (“Roman Catholicism”).  In Catholicism, receiving communion or “host” is the most important or significant part of the mass. Because the bread (host) signified the body of Christ, Catholics believe that the host and wine are crucial to our soul’s salvation (“Roman Catholicism”). For this manner, we believe Eugene to strictly enforce his son to receive communion in such an aggressive manner to save him.
Not only is Eugene presented to be antagonistic with Jaja and explains his reasons to be affiliated with Catholicism but is also abusive with Kambili. Kambili gets her period and eats before she goes to mass. When revealing that she is eating before receiving communion, Eugene takes off his belt and begins to beat Kambili and the rest of his family. Eugene yells at Kambili’s mother for allowing her to eat food. Kambili says, “as he swung his belt at Mama, Jaja and me, he muttered that the devil would not win” (102). Catholics are taught to fast before receiving communion because of how sacred it is believed to be. They fast as a way to inflict discipline upon themselves (“Roman Catholicism”). Eugene goes to the extreme in comparing his daughter’s need of eating to sin or the devil.
Later in the narrative Kambili and Jaja visit her Aunty Ifeoma very frequently and are put in an environment they are not comfortable in. Their father’s teachings do not seem to apply in their house. Jaja and Kambili admit to feeling out of place, for they have been raised in an extremely strict household and now feel liberated. Kambili then comes home to her upset father, Eugene, who awaits her in the bathtub. Kambili is filled with fear as she sees the kettle they use to boil water. Eugene pours the boiling hot water on Kambili’s feet. Eugene explains, “That is what you do to yourself when you walk into sin. You burn your feet.” (194). Catholics believe that sin will lead to hell. Without reconciliation, it is believed one is in great danger (“Roman Catholicism”). The power, religion has in Eugene’s life is tremendous as he has no sympathy in harming his children for the sake of his religious beliefs.
Overall, Eugene exemplifies the extremities people do for religion in which he almost hits Jaja, hits his wife and kids with a belt and pour boiling hot water on Kambili. Eugene was brainwashed, in believing that he was doing his children good by abusing them. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Purple Hibiscus has many different symbols and themes, but the power of religion seems to be the most evident. Although religion may give people a sense of freedom, it also may brainwash or control them without knowing. In today’s society we have experienced and seen the extremes people will go for a religion.
































Work Cited:

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Fourth Estate, Imprint HarperCollins, 
	2017.
Knowles, Michael David, and Francis Christopher Oakley. “Roman Catholicism”, 
	Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., 18 July 2017, <www.britannica.com>
