Rhetorical Analysis of News
With easy access to the internet comes easy access to news. Nearly every demographic group has at least one website specifically catered to them. No matter what opinion a person holds, they are guaranteed to find a site somewhere that supports it. Watermark Online, a news site directed at LGBTQ individuals, and Townhall, a conservative website, both report news. However, Watermark Online only publishes LGBTQ news, and Townhall only publishes conservative news.
The subject matter of the two sites very clearly reflects their respective audiences. Since Watermark Online is intended for an LGBTQ audience, most of their articles are about issues important to LGBTQ people specifically. Headlines like “Phillipe Cunningham first trans man elected to public office” and “Elton John celebrates 25 years of AIDS foundation” are likely to pique the interest of many LGBTQ people (Johnson; Wire Report). Even their sports section talks exclusively about LGBT people and issues, like Mariah Cooper’s article about Katie Sowers, the “first openly LGBT NFL coach”. The wording of headlines is mostly neutral, although articles are not. Almost all articles on Watermark are taken directly from The Washington Blade, a prominent LGBT newspaper. 
Meanwhile, Townhall features topics important to conservatives. Article titles include “GOP Congresswoman: Why Do Dems Think It's 'Dangerous' to Let Parents Save for Unborn Babies?” and “USA Today Gets SCHOOLED On Guns And Gun Modifications” (Brown; Baumann). Word choice for headlines and articles tends to be slightly biased. A large amount of their content focuses on showcasing mistakes made by Democrats and good things done by Republicans. Another large portion of their content is directed towards gun owners. Townhall also features political cartoons (see Figure 1).

Figure 1: a cartoon making fun of fights between Democrats and Republicans. 
Both websites have a combination of serious and entertaining articles. On both sites, references to social media platforms like Twitter are frequent. However, the contrasts in subject matter and word choice are clear. Where Watermark puts an LGBTQ spin on every story, almost every story on Townhall has a conservative spin. Watermark keeps its headlines neutral and only shows real opinions in the articles themselves. Townhall’s headlines often broadcast the opinion of the writer.
In terms of layout, there are many differences, but a surprising number of similarities. The first page to load when accessing Watermark Online is colorful to the point of being garish, with a dark purple background and bright orange, hot pink, and aqua blue accents. With how colorful and festive it is, the home page is almost like a graphic representation of a gay pride parade. The color scheme seems geared towards young, or at least very excited, people. At the top of the page are five articles that the site wants viewers to pay attention to, followed by a toolbar of popular topics (see Figure 2).

Figure 2: Watermark Online’s home page.
	Text is in large, easy-to-read, sans serif fonts. Tags on articles make them easy to find, despite the lack of a search feature. The original shock of color is dulled as readers scroll down and a graphic of a grey and white picket fence replaces the purple background (see Figure 3).
	

Figure 3: Watermark’s picket fence background.
	In contrast with the bright colors and graphics of Watermark Online, the best word to describe Townhall’s layout might be “conservative”. It has a white and grey background with tiny amounts of red, and black, mainly Times New Roman lettering. The home page has large pictures and bold headlines showing popular articles. At the top of the page, there is a toolbar similar to the one on Watermark. In general, the layout of Townhall seems like it is geared towards both younger and older generations. It seems accessible and easy to understand, with the tool bar always available as you scroll down. However, the large pictures and bold headlines seem to be targeted at the very visual Millennial generation (see Figure 4).

	Figure 4: The home page of Townhall.	
	Where Townhall has articles laid out in almost a grid format, Watermark has a list of articles. Along with a title and picture, Watermark provides a snippet of content for each article, with a link enticing the audience to continue reading. Townhall provides only the title and a picture. Throughout the websites, there is a distinct color difference.
	Although the websites mostly differ in layout, certain things are the same. Both websites have a lot of white, grey, and black in their color schemes, despite Watermark Online’s ever-present purple and orange. They both attempt to draw in readers with big, bold text and large pictures. There is also a focus on what is “trending”. Articles about popular topics are visually more obvious than other articles. The overall effect is that readers end up looking at articles they are not terribly interested in just because of how eye-catching the web designers make them.
	Of the two websites, Townhall is much more likely to resort to logical fallacies. An example of this is an article written by Kurt Schlicter, where he makes several ad hominem attacks, such as “professional anti-gun liar Shannon Watts really knows her audience – drooling idiots”. In contrast, Watermark has no glaringly obvious logical fallacies. Although Watermark’s articles make it clear what opinions the writers hold, they remain respectful to those with differing opinions. However, they do occasionally use the either/or fallacy, like when Michael K. Lavers quoted Chad Griffin as saying, “Unless Congress acts, no community in America can be safe” which seems to imply that Congress can either strengthen gun control or let everyone die, a definite oversimplification of the issue.
	Both websites use very biased sources. Watermark’s articles all come from another newspaper, The Washington Blade, “America’s LGBT News Source”. Townhall writers often reference their own Twitter posts, or sites like Hot Air and RedState, which are affiliated with Townhall. Although both websites’ links always go directly to the posts they’re citing, they tend to avoid any sources that don’t prove the points they’re trying to make, resulting in heavily biased reporting.
	In most ways, Watermark Online and Townhall are polar opposites. Watermark is a site written to appeal to LGBTQ individuals, who tend to be liberal, while Townhall appeals to conservatives. In many aspects of layout, word choice, and frequency of logical fallacies, the differences are also clear. Despite this, there are quite a few similarities between the sites. Their layouts are different in many ways, but both execute similar strategies to get people to click their articles. They are also both sites who tend to use biased sources. Overall, though, they are as different from each other as their respective readers are.











Works Cited
Baumann, Beth. “USA Today Gets SCHOOLED On Guns And Gun Modifications.” Townhall, Townhall Media, 8 Nov. 2017, townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2017/11/08/usa-today-gets-schooled-on-guns-and-gun-modifications-n2406776.

Brown, Lauretta. “GOP Congresswoman Asks Dems Why It's 'Dangerous' to Let Parents Save for Unborn Babies.” Townhall, Townhall.com, 9 Nov. 2017, townhall.com/tipsheet/laurettabrown/2017/11/09/gop-congresswoman-asks-whats-so-dangerous-about-savings-plan-for-unborn-babies-in-tax-bill-n2407253.
“Conservative news, politics, opinion, breaking news analysis, political cartoons and commentary – Townhall.” Townhall, Townhall Media, townhall.com/.
Johnson, Chris. “Phillipe Cunningham first trans man elected to U.S. public office.” Watermark Online, Watermark Publishing Group, 9 Nov. 2017, www.watermarkonline.com/2017/11/09/phillipe-cunningham-first-trans-man-elected-u-s-public-office/.
Lavers, Michael K. “LGBT groups renew gun control debate as gunman kills more than 20 people in Texas church.” Watermark Online, Watermark Publishing Group, 6 Nov. 2017, www.watermarkonline.com/2017/11/06/lgbt-groups-renew-gun-control-debate-as-gunman-kills-more-than-20-people-in-texas-church/.
Schlichter, Kurt. “Thoughts and Prayers for Anti-Gun Freaks Grieving Over Death of The Narrative.” Townhall, Townhall.com, 9 Nov. 2017, townhall.com/columnists/kurtschlichter/2017/11/09/thoughts-and-prayers-for-antigun-freaks-grieving-over-death-of-their-narrative-n2406128.
Wire Report. “Elton John celebrates 25 years of AIDS foundation.” Watermark Online, Watermark Publishing Group, 9 Nov. 2017, www.watermarkonline.com/2017/11/09/elton-john-celebrates-25-years-aids-foundation/.
 “Your LGBTQ Life. Daily.” Watermark Online, Watermark Publishing Group, www.watermarkonline.com/.
