The Idea of the American Dream
What is the idea of the American Dream? “The idea of the American Dream, everyone has got an equal opportunity, you’ve just got to decide to play.” This begins a very lengthy video directed by Alex Gibney. His film Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream - Why Poverty illustrates a grim reality for many within the American society. Some individuals believe the American dream doesn’t exist and others believe it does, but it’s not about whether the dream exists but whether it can be achieved. Between the wealthy and the poor, it can be difficult for the poor to achieve their American dream. Since there is a large inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor, the poor most likely will never be able to realize their so-called American dream because the wealthy have an abundant amount of resources, income inequality is increasing, and the basis of the economy has changed. 
America, the land of opportunity... or so some may think. How can this be the “land of opportunity” when the upper class can do as they please. The film Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream - Why Poverty displays this unfair concept by using the game Monopoly. The player that represented the upper class had a huge advantage, unlike the player that represented the lower class who had a huge disadvantage. This experiment allowed individuals in America to notice that the wealthy have more access, more social mobility, and more resources to do the things they want. Unlike the wealthy, the people on the lower end are more disadvantaged, underprivileged, and don’t have as much opportunity to do what they want. One huge disadvantage is social mobility which is shifting from one social status to another. Although it’s not impossible, the upwardly mobile American is becoming statistically odd. According to research from the Brookings Institution, only 58 percent of Americans born into the bottom fifth of income earners move out of that category, and just 6 percent born into the bottom fifth move to the top (Stiglitz, para 3). Most individuals born into a lower-class family rarely rise into the higher income classes in the United States. This is caused by unfair income earning wages from all socioeconomic classes. 
Income inequality throughout the United States is increasing. Going back to before gender inequality ended in the 1960s, many women made much less than the men around them. Now the inequality has shifted from gender to socioeconomic classes. In the film Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream - Why Poverty, Gibney addresses how political reform affects middle and lower-class families. For example, “Paul Ryan’s budget proposal would cut the food stamps budget over 130 million dollars in the span of 10 years” (Gibney, 38:02). If the many resources that are used to help the minorities are taken away, income inequality will remain the same. Not only are the multiple resources being taken away, but also pay raise has yet to increase. “Millions of Americans have not had a significant pay raise in years, which has fueled anger over income inequality. For example, in the second quarter of 2016, the median weekly earnings of all U.S. workers hit $834. Back in 2012, that figure was $771” (Geewax, para. 13). Sadly, this pay raise problem is only fueling anger to the individuals that are not a part of the top 1%. If pay raise opportunities are not offered to all Americans, then the economy will not flourish. 
The economy which is the wealth and resources of a country or region has definitely changed in America. Although the economy is running by all Americans, the individuals at the top of the ladder have a huge impact on it. These people can influence the writing of laws, the implementation of regulation, and the degree to which the tax code tilts towards each class. Alex Gibney gives a perfect example in his film about how a small group of billionaires can have an influence over the government. “The most highly paid financial executives get taxed at a rate lower than your mom and pop gross rate” (Gibney, 20:24). Americans who are a part of the middle and lower classes will suffer from this problem of carried interest because they are paying more taxes than the ones in the upper crust. The issue of carried interest on taxes is claimed as forgivable, considering that donations are being given by large hedge fund managers. According to Matthew Johnston, “Two hedge-fund managers, John Paulson and Kenneth Griffin, recently donated $400 million and $150 million, respectively, to Harvard University. Stephen Schwarzman, chair and co-founder of the private equity fund Blackstone, recently donated $150 million to Yale University” (Johnston, para. 9). Since these high-class Americans are donating money to schools, it is “acceptable” that they get taxed at a lower rate than others. Those apart of the bottom 1% that perform the similar services are still required to pay the original tax rate, unlike hedge fund managers and general partners of private equity. 
	Opponents of these views present several arguments. Some believe that individuals apart of the upper class have as much resources as those in the middle and low classes. The film directed by Alex Gibney illustrates ways in which the upper and lower classes are similar. The street of Park Avenue is used as an example. People who live on the rich side of Park Avenue most likely live at 740 Park Avenue, drive high end cars, and are owners of large businesses. Unlike the people who live on the poor side of Park Avenue that live in cramped apartments, don’t have cars, and are barely making minimum wage. Whether a person is a part of the upper 30% or the bottom 1%, anyone is capable of making it to the top if they are willing to work hard. 
Although opponents of these views present several arguments, there is still evidence to argue that the wealthy have an abundant amount of resources, income inequality is increasing, and the basis of the economy is changing. As a nation, the government isn’t doing what is needed to be done in order for inequality not to exist. In order for this issue to change, the government needs to stop allowing upper crust individuals like Charles Schumer to use his powers for the wrong reasons. According to Gibney, in the month where the Senate was considering legislation to close the carried interest loophole Schumer went on a fundraising spree and managed to push the bill away. The government’s job is to make sure everyone has equal opportunity, but equalizing outcomes will make everyone equally miserable. Without the inequality throughout America everyone will be miserable, just as miserable as the bottom 1%. 
In today's America, what are the chances of someone who is born into the bottom 1% to end up in the top 30%? Since there is a large inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor, the poor most likely will never be able to realize their so-called American dream because the wealthy have an abundant amount of resources, income inequality is increasing, and the basis of the economy has changed. Overall, the film and evidence illustrate the grim reality for many within the American society and shows that it is very challenging for individuals who are born into poverty to rise to the top of the ladder.  






Works Cited
Geewax, Marilyn. “Since 2012, The Economy Has Changed - And So Has The Conversation.”NPR, NPR, 28 Aug. 2016.
	Johnston, Matthew. “Carried Interest: A Loophole in America's Tax Code.” Investopedia, 1 May 2017.
“Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream.” by Alex Gibney.
	Stiglitz, Joseph E. “Equal Opportunity, Our National Myth.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 16 Feb. 2013.
