Economic Disempowerment
	Ever since African Americans have been freed from slavery, it seems as if the living conditions and economical position for people of color have remained generally the same.  People of color continue to be subject to negative psychological manipulation through their dilapidated living conditions in urban cities and general media.  Though there have been government anti-poverty programs that were to designed to help struggling families, these programs are also the very things that keep people of color from achieving higher economic status.  The American government, a predominately white system, works with white companies and rich Americans to specifically design plans and policies that contribute to the economic disempowerment of people of color; these policies and plans work to keep blacks out of jobs, have poorer living conditions and continue the war on drugs in order to capitalize off of the poor.
	According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the African American Unemployment rate is 7.5% as of October of 2017.  That is 4% more than whites, who have a 3.5% unemployment rate, and 4.4% more than Asians who have a 3.1% unemployment rate (“Table A-2”).  Some may wonder why there are so many blacks unemployed in 2017.  There is, undoubtedly, a difference in the mindset of the African American versus the White American when it comes to finances.  Most blacks were taught to work hard for their money, sometimes, even forced to work for free, like in the times of slavery.  Whites on the other hand are taught to create their own businesses and to have their money work for them, leaving them more financially literate and successful.  However, employment discrimination is nothing new to society, especially for blacks. According to a study conducted by the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY), “Black respondents lived in areas where, on average, the local unemployment rate was 3 times as high as the White rate and almost twice as high as the Hispanic rate…this generally would have prompted greater effort on the part of Blacks. But Blacks averaged more episodes of unemployment than Hispanics or Whites. Blacks also experienced the highest mean duration of unemployment: 32 weeks, 11 weeks longer than the mean duration for Hispanics and 14 weeks longer than the mean duration for Whites… In addition, Blacks were likely to incur more psychological damage from joblessness, because they are subjected to joblessness more often.  It has also been shown that prolonged unemployment is associated with emotional damage that can overlap and intersect with harm to one’s own and others’ physical well-being… emotional decline among adults can inflict adverse effects on their children” (Darity, para. 13-15).  “Blacks had the lowest wages in the sample and were least likely to receive an efficiency wage” (para. 6).  The article goes on to explain how low self-esteem plays a role in employment.  Consciously being declined from jobs due to your race affiliation is something that will negatively affect anyone’s self-esteem.  You are unable to receive basic living essentials such as food and healthcare, and are unable to provide for your family.   This being said, such low self-esteem in the black community keeps blacks them from receiving jobs, in addition to racial discrimination.  
	Being unemployed leaves blacks vulnerable to inadequate living conditions. With homeless rate of over 40%, blacks make up most of the homeless population in the United States.  According to Richard Rothstein, a research associate at the Economic Policy Institute, “the New Deal's Public Works Administration led to the creation of segregated ghettos.
Its policy was that public housing could be used only to house people of the same race as the neighborhood in which it was located, but, in fact, most of the public housing that was built in the early years was built in integrated neighborhoods, which they razed and then built segregated public housing in those neighborhoods. So, public housing created racial segregation where none existed before. That was one of the chief policies” (“Historian Says Don't 'Sanitize”).  Rothstein also states that black neighborhoods were also denied adequate services such as garbage removal.  This would explain the scattered trash and food remains that are often found in such neighborhoods.  Being under the stress of unemployment and homelessness, black families are often left to putting children up for adoption, which is increasingly becoming the government’s most profitable source of capitalization.   In his book, The Poverty Industry: The Exploitation of America's Most Vulnerable Citizens, Daniel L. Hatcher states that: “A child may be determined a candidate by the poverty industry to obtain her Social Security disability or survivor benefits, to maximize federal payments under the Title IV-E foster care program on her behalf, to seek out various types of federal Medicaid funds, to take Veteran’s Assistance benefits from her if her parents died in the military, and even to take her child support payments. As the money starts to flow, the poverty industry seeks to claim it—often diverting the funds from much needed assistance for the child into government coffers and company profits” (Hatcher, 65).
	All of these factors contribute to depression, especially in blacks.  Some may turn to a life of drugs in order to block out the emotional trauma that has been experienced.  However, the system is specifically designed to lead blacks to this now illegal outlet.  In an interview with John Ehrlichman in 1994, Ehrlichman lays out President Nixon’s plan for the war on drugs.  “The Nixon campaign in 1968, and the Nixon White House after that, had two enemies: the antiwar left and black people. You understand what I’m saying? We knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or blacks, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin, and then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities. We could arrest their leaders, raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course, we did” (Baum, para. 2).  According to Ehrlichman, the government, under Nixon’s rule, actively worked to criminalize citizens’ need to adjust how they feel, and politicians continue to feed off of that source today.  After being criminalized and arrested, blacks are forced into free labor in the prison system, which is essentially legalized slavery.        
Some opposing views of the points made would be:  There is no evidence to prove that white employers deny people of color jobs based on their race.  Some may also say that blacks have the opportunity to generate wealth and move to better neighborhoods if they wanted to, or that if blacks weren’t so “lazy”, they could work to provide for their family and not have to succumb to a life of drugs.  However, these claims can easily be refuted.  
 There are no studies that show that blacks are being denied jobs due to their race.  These are things that cannot be measured, however, stories of discrimination in the work place and confessions of racial discrimination are things that can be used for evidence.  The statistics that were presented in the beginning of the essay clearly show the gap between races that are hired, versus the ones who are not hired; blacks having the least amount of jobs.  As stated before, because blacks are given the least amount of jobs, making hard to file for self-owned businesses that must be legally registered.  Because of the lack of jobs (even temporary ones), blacks are constantly kept from obtaining government money and grants for their businesses.  This keeps them in their current communities, unable to obtain better living conditions or luxuries like most whites have. Having the highest unemployment rate, blacks are often seen as: “lazy”, however, this is a common misconception.  As stated earlier in the essay, blacks are often kept from obtaining jobs due to racism and white supremacy.  According to a documentary on America’s wealth gap, Park Avenue states that: “As of 2010, only 400 of the richest Americans controlled more wealth than the bottom half of American households.  That's 150 million people” (Blair, et.all, 2013).  “…nearly 96.1 percent of the 1.2 million households in the top one percent by income were white, a total of about 1,150,000 households” (Moore, para. 3).  We live in a society that is based on race and class, where each race works to help the other. That being said, whites (or Europeans) work to help each other, even if it means denying a single mother of 2 a job to provide for her own family.  Having been exposed to this cycle of even for his or her entire life, the person may eventually reach a level of severe depression in which he or she turns to drugs in order to alter his or her reality.  Job discrimination is not something that be dealt with at a specific source because it is so deeply embedded within American culture and society.
The American government continuously works to disempower people of color by denying them jobs, better living conditions, and creating a war on drugs which leads to legalized slavery within the prison systems.  Though some may believe that we are all given the same chance to succeed and have the ability to live wherever we want, it is simply not true.  Blacks are simply denied jobs and are not lazy.  Some sever circumstances from being denied jobs may lead to sever depression; leading to a life of drugs and incarceration.  This essay worked to explain the facts, statistics and policies that the US government has put in place to keep people segregated.  Hopefully, in the future we will have more hope as Americans for the sake of integration and global involvement.  


Annotated Bibliography

Baum, Dan, et al. “Legalize It All.” Harper's magazine, harpers.org/archive/2016/04/legalize-it
all/.  This source will briefly be used to show how the government, under president nixon’s rule has chosen to criminalize blacks for attempting to alter their gruesome reality through drugs.  The article works from an anti-government and legalization standpoint which will help me prove my points throughout my essay.  

Darity, William A. “Employment Discrimination, Segregation, and Health.” American Journal
of Public Health, © American Journal of Public Health 2003, Feb. 2003, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1447721/.  This source provides results from studies conducted on the effects of unemployment on one’s emotional health “according to race and sex”.  The researchers for this experiment believe that low self-esteem from unemployment plays a role in the high unemployment rate for blacks since employers are looking for more confident people.  “Exposure to unemployment and longer durations of unemployment tend to increase the likelihood that an individual will have a more external locus of control”.  This will help my thesis by explaining a proven reason why blacks are less likely to get hired for jobs in contrast to whites and Latinos.  It will also help explain my point that government has created a situation to keep blacks generally unhappy which also plays a role in unemployment which affects chances for better housing, and other opportunities.  

Foster, Blair, et al. Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why
Poverty?Youtube.com/Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream--Why Poverty?, BBC, 5 Jan. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So.  This source is an assigned video and basis for this argumentative essay. The author(s) believe that the 1% of wealthy people of America control 99% of the population and that the wealthy politicians created the wealth gap for a reason.  They provide examples, articles and videos to prove their bias.  “As of 2010, only 400 of the richest Americans controlled more wealth than the bottom half of American households.  That's 150 million people”.  It will support the essay by giving facts and statistics about the percentage of wealthy people who rule the poor.

Hatcher, Daniel L..The Poverty Industry: The Exploitation of America's Most Vulnerable
Citizens, NYU Press, 2016. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://removed-this-url.com/. This source states how the government, along with select companies, are creating and using specific policies to capitalize off of those living in poverty.  The author is against the false belief that the government is doing everything to help those in poverty.  This source is being used to provide information on specific policies and scams created by the government which will assist me in my thesis and throughout the essay.

“Historian Says Don't 'Sanitize' How Our Government Created Ghettos.” NPR, NPR, 14 May
2015, www.npr.org/2015/05/14/406699264/historian-says-dont-sanitize-how-our-government-created-the-ghettos.  This source explains the “history of residential segregation in America”.  This article is also a radio transcript from the National Public Radio (NPR).  The narrator’s goal is to help the audience understand the history of housing segregation in America.  The fact that America has a history of housing segregation should and will be addressed in the essay.  It will support my thesis my providing examples of specific housing policies used to discriminate against blacks and other people of color.

Moore, Antonio. “America's Financial Divide: The Racial Breakdown of U.S. Wealth in Black
and White.” The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 13 Apr. 2015,
www.huffingtonpost.com/antonio-moore/americas-financial-divide_b_7013330.html.  This source works to provide statistics of the 1% of rich people.  The article explains that “…nearly 96.1 percent of the 1.2 million households in the top one percent by income were white, a total of about 1,150,000 households”.  This will further help my essay by adding another documented statistic of blacks vs. whites.  

“Table A-2. Employment status of the civilian population by race, sex, and age.” U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t02.htm.  This source works to provide me with statistics on the unemployment rate of blacks, whites, and Asians.  I plan to use it to further explain my point on employment discrimination.  This will help my thesis by explaining how many blacks do not have jobs.
