A Presence in the Economy: Racial Inequality
	The origin of racial inequality dates back to the time when slaves were considered okay. When slaves were finally freed they still faced racial inequality in the form of Jim Crow Laws and particularly by receiving the same public services as others (International Council on Human Rights Policy 6-7, 14). Now, such laws don’t exist and the world treats different races more equally. Despite the progression and development of our world/government, racial inequality still occurs (ICHRP, 19-29). In our economy, the presence of racial inequality is evident by various reports, statistics, and economic policies.
	Various reports show unfair treatment existing for those coming from different races. The International Council on Human Rights Policy have expressed a “significant racial stratification” in their report. Concerning the topic of a gap in poverty they stated that “Substantial disparities between blacks and whites exist in wages, unemployment rates, income and wealth levels, ability test scores, incarceration and criminal victimisation rates, health and mortality statistics” (ICHRP 9). Japanese-Americans receiving compensation for interning in World War II while enslaved African descendants who were forced to settle in Brazil did not receive any financial compensation represented that the United States government held an issue with reparations. This issue was taken as an example of discrimination/unfair treatment (ICHRP 18). The report presented the notion that the government can respond to a certain situation by criminalizing the group concerned. Attached to this notion was the evidence that “A disproportionate number of African American men are held in United States prisons.3 7 The war on drugs has been devastating to African-Americans: blacks are incarcerated on drug charges at a rate thirteen times greater than that of white men” (ICHRP 19). Such a statement is an example of one of many statistics that show the existence of racial inequality, which will be further expanded upon next. Overall, what the report had ultimately done was suggest various implications seen in economic policies that seem racist. 
	Statistics which present instances of racial inequality do so by displaying a quantitative type of evidence. The differences seen in numbers hold a certain value that hold the ability to validate the presence of absence of treatment being equal/fair or not the same/unequal/unfair. Burnham’s article on welfare policies show just how substantial the numbers seen in statistics are. She states “Full-time, year-round Latina workers earned a median annual income of $19,817 in 1998, considerably less than the $23,864 earned by African American women or the $27,304 earned by white women. All women are far more likely than white men to earn poverty level wages” (Burnham, RP&E journal). What she is explaining through statistics is that, simply, racial bias and hidden disadvantages can be found in economic policies. *more statistics to be added/explored in depth later.
	Economic policies have presented situations in which favorability towards a race, exclusion of a race, or just unequal racist treatment can occur. Burnham expressed the notion that it was impossible for different races to reap the benefits of welfare. She paired/suggested this notion by bringing up and quoting a researcher that analyzes labor market conditions whom concluded that it would prove difficult for welfare recipients who were women of different races to receive welfare benefits. Another example of welfare inequality was supported by a study on the economic circumstances of families. It stated, “that tracked families who left Wisconsin’s welfare system found that during the first year off welfare, only half of the families had higher income than they had while receiving welfare benefits, even if they had been working while receiving welfare.11 An examination of seven state studies of former welfare recipients found that in only two of the states were families’ average annual earnings above the poverty line” (Burnham, RP&E journal). *more economic policy evidence from park avenue movie to be added later.
	Opponents’ views center around the argument that racial inequalities in fact do not exist in our economy. They argue that those situations or instances of inequality are just the unfortunate consequences of people who didn’t work hard enough. They claim that race does not matter and that anyone could be affected. It should be disregarded.
	However, their arguments can be refuted through the presentation of reports, statistics, and investigation into the occurrence of unfair treatment in economic policies. Collectively, they provide numerous accounts of racial inequality. Since statistics offer a more quantitative counter argument, they seem more legitimized. For example, when Burnham stated that “Full-time, year-round Latina workers earned a median annual income of $19,817 in 1998, considerably less than the $23,864 earned by African American women or the $27,304 earned by white women. All women are far more likely than white men to earn poverty level wages” (Burnham, RP&E journal). The numbers that aligned her argument brought a certain substantiality. *more evidence to be added later.
	In conclusion, racial inequality is indeed seen in economic policies, reports, and statistics. Though opponents disregard these matters and make them unimportant, they can be accumulated and analyzed to a point where they have the ability to be substantial/have a voice. The varying degrees of statistics, news and reports, and economic professionals were incorporated into the Park Avenue movie, Lina Burnham’s article on economic policies, and the ICHRP report present either racial economic exclusion or plain treatment that is not fair and equal. Surely, not only is it important to recognize that racial inequality is indeed present in our economy, but also it is important to recognize the actuality that many factors hinder the American Dream (equal opportunity and treatment for all, all races). 


Works Cited
Burnham, Linda. “Racism in the United States Welfare Policy.” 14 March, 2007, http://www.reimaginerpe.org/node/858. 
International Council on Human Rights Policy. “Racial and economic exclusion: Policy implications.” 24 Jan. 2001, http://www.ichrp.org/files/reports/23/113_report_en.pdf. 
WhyPoverty, and Jigsaw Productions & Steps International. “Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream - Why Poverty?” YouTube, 5 Jan. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So.
