Analysis Paper Prompt C 

A family is supposed to be a loving bond shared between a father, mother, and children. When violence infiltrates this bond, everything changes for the worse. Eugene Adiche claims to love his family but his actions prove otherwise. He claims to love his family but beats them vigorously. How can you claim to love someone but constantly inflict physical pain upon them? Adichie portrays Eugene as having complex relationships with Papa Nnukwu, Kambili, and his wife.
Eugene and Papa Nnukwu do not have a good relationship with one another. When Kambili comes second in her class he tells her that he succeeded even though he has a father who “spent his time worshipping gods of wood and stone.”( Adichie 47) Eugene doesn’t want his children to be around their own grandfather. That right there is a little confusing because the question that will arise is “ why does he not want his children to have a relationship with his father? When Eugene discovers out that his children had a painting of Papa Nnukwu, he went into a rage. He saw the painting and began to beat his daughter for having it. Questions will arise as to why he has so much of a disdain for his own father. Adichie includes this complex relationship to further develop the character of Eugene. 
Eugene does not have a normal relationship with his children. The relationship seems very bipolar and complex. He gives Jaja and Kambili “love sips” of his tea because you share the small things in life with the ones you love. If Eugene loves his family the way he claims, why does he treat him the way he does? On page 194, He pours boiling hot water on to Kambili's feet and cries while he does it. He believes he is disciplining his children through these acts. He walks in on Kambili and Jaja looking at the painting of Papa Nnukwu and goes ballistic. He kicks and beats Kambili repeatedly until she is unconscious.( Adichie 211) She woke up to her mother telling her to thank god she was alive. Why would she need to thank god? Her father, a man of god almost kills his own daughter. He didn’t leave the hospital the whole time. His actions are such a contradiction to each other. He cries when he pours boiling water on his feet, He stays at the hospital worrying if his daughter will live through what he put her through. Eugene claims to love his daughter but also beats her mercilessly, showing another complex relationship.
A wife is someone you are supposed to cherish and be happy with, not beat and instill fear into. Mama (Beatrice Achike) has a few miscarriages throughout the story all from the same cause. Children are god's blessing and no one can deny that. For Eugene to be a priest and continue to stop his wife from bearing children is very wrong. On page 33, Papa goes into the bathroom with Beatrice and when he comes out she is slung over his shoulder and blood is on the floor. He sends her away and returns in the morning stating that she had an “accident”. She lost the baby due to him beating her. Loveisrespect.org states that women stay in relationships because of fear or pressure. “They state that  Your friend may stay in an abusive relationship hoping that their abuser will change. Think about it — if a person you love tells you they’ll change, you want to believe them. Your friend may only want the violence to stop, not for the relationship to end entirely.” Eugene does not treat Beatrice as a wife but as a punching bag.
Through many ways Adichie portrays the complex relationship between Eugene and other characters. She expresses the lack of a relationship with Papa Nnukwu. He also has a very abusive relationship with his daughter but claims to deeply love her. Lastly, he treats his wife terribly, causing her to have many miscarriages. The complexity of Eugene and his relationships make the story what it is.
