Slavery and Freedom
	In the Seventeenth century tobacco was the source to being rich and powerful because it brought in so much profit for the owner. Tobacco is grown in huge plantations and would be nearly impossible for one person to run and farm their plantation. So owners started to hire a staff, or indentured servants that would serve for a term. After some time they realized that  in the long run that they weren’t every economically convenient for them, so they came up with the new idea of slaves.They got this idea  from Africans themselves because they owned slaves as well, but their slaves had some type of  freedom. Slavery at this time grew intensely, as for freedom, well it grew, but it decreased at the same time. This of course depended on the status of the person. 
	There is a difference between the two labors. Indentured servants had the option to work for someone and weren’t really mistreated. They also only served a certain amount of time and once that time period is over they are rewarded with land and full freedom. While African slaves were forced to work for someone. Unlike indentured servants, slaves did not have freedom. They worked for a lifetime and were not treated so great. As the time went along things didn’t really get better. As the years passed the laws did not side with the slaves. They allowed owners to mistreat and even at times, kill slaves. Even though the laws were unfair, as the years passed they got worst. In 1661, “ Metappin a Powhatan Indian being sold for a lifetime to one Elizabeth Short be the King of Wainoake Indians who had no power to sell him being of another nation, it is ordered that the said Indian be free, he speaking perfectly the English tongue and desire baptism”, this allowed the slave to be free, but this didn’t last long.(Virginia Laws).
In 1667, “ An act declaring the baptism of slaves doth not exempt them from bondage”, which just states that slave children are able to be baptized but will not change their status, also means some freedom of religion. (Virginia laws). This again changed in 1669, “If any slave resist his masters (or other by his masters order correcting him) and by the extremity of the correction would chance to die, that his death shall not be accompted felony”, now slaves can be murdered and the owner would be free of any crime. (Virginia Laws). This shows that the laws worsen as years past. Why would the laws get worst instead of getting better? During this time the amount of slaves coming into Virginia exceeded the amount of English people there was, there was about  15,000 English and 250,000 slaves so there was chance of rebellion and rise from slaves so the laws had to punish them more to keep them in “place”. All these laws brought more freedom to the English.
Although these laws were so strict and harmful slaves still had ways of resistance. Most English thought that Africans or Indians weren’t as intelligent as they were but they were wrong. Slaves knew they couldn’t act out to their owner so they would sabotage the crops by accidentally  burning it and they would run away. The colonial period  was the biggest rebellion in Charleston, South Carolina, which was the entry of slaves.  (Jone’s lecture) This was the way they would seek freedom, but even then they weren’t free. 
In the Seventeenth Century there was very little relation between freedom and slavery unless it was with an owner and slave. The people who could have both were indentured servants, they would work and once done they were free. Slaves were usually force and had little to no freedom. The little freedom they had was thanks to religion. They had to work their whole life and not even running away were they free. Owners had all the freedom and didn’t give it up to their slaves. The English had to remove the slaves freedom to keep theirs. The only relation between freedom and slavery was labor. 


Works Cited
Virginia Laws 
Jone’s Lecture
