Essay 2
	Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie takes place in the city of Enugu, Nigeria where two privileged teens, Kambili and Jaja, undergo many encounters with their father Eugene. The novel begins with the family attending a Palm Sunday service and continues into unraveling the complexity of the family. Adichie presents many themes throughout the novel that are significant to Eugene such as religion, family, and violence. With his Eugene’s very tangled character one might question how complex his relationship with his family is. Adichie, not only portrays Eugene as an abusive and violent man, but also as a man who loves his family because he uses his cast wealth to support his loved ones, his strong belief in God to keep the family together and his strict authoritative rules to benefit his children.
	Eugene (Papa) Achike, a factory owner and the publisher for the newspaper the Standard uses his wealth to support his family and loved ones. Adichie displays many ways throughout the novel where Eugene is sharing his wealth, especially with his church. On countless occasions he is praised for the large amounts of money he has gave to the church. “On some Sundays, the congregation listened closely even when Father Benedict talked about things everybody already knew, about Papa making the biggest donation to Peter’s pence and St. Vincent de Paul. Or about Papa paying for the cartons of communion wine, for the new ovens at the convent where the Reverend Sisters baked the host, for the new wing to St. Agnes Hospital where Father Benedict gave extreme unction,” Kambili comments (5). The author allows Kambili to list various ways that her father supports his loved ones through his wealth. Not only does the long and detailed list allow the reader to have a good impression of Eugene, but it also portrays him as a man who loves the people around him. Eugene continues to spread his support from his church to the town of Abba where he was raised. The praise he receives at home is nothing compared to the praise he receives in the town of Abba. During Chapter 5, three little boys screamed Papa’s name, Omelora which in Igbo means “The One Who Does for The Community.” They come to greet him and because he knows why they have approached him he gives them each ten naira from a stack of money he has in his pocket (55). Adichie uses words from the Igbo language to have a deeper impact on the support he is giving. It again allows the reader to portray him as a man who loves the people around him. Using more than just wealth to support his loved ones, Eugene’s strong belief in God manages to uphold the Achike family.
	Religion plays a prominent role in the novel and especially in Eugene’s life. He strongly encourages his family to follow the rules of the Catholic religion, but also manages to impact the lives of his family members. In the beginning of the novel, Adichie reveals Papa as an abusive and violent man. “He picked up the missal and flung it across the room, toward Jaja. It missed Jaja completely, but it hit the glass etagere, which Mama polished often” (7). Papa is very angry with Jaja but doesn’t notice that the acts he commits is just as bad as him “punishing Jaja for his sins.” Adichie using Jaja’s rebellious act has now allowed the reader to portray Eugene as an abusive and violent man. Carrying his Catholic pride into the town of Abba, he still maintains the unhealthy relationship with his father Papa Nnukwu since he doesn’t worship the Catholic religion. Knowing that Papa is wrong for his actions Aunty Ifeoma tells Mama about Eugene. “…But you know Eugene quarrels with the truths that he does not like. Our father is dying, do you hear me? Dying. He is an old man, how much longer does he have, gbo? Yet Eugene will not stop doing God’s job. God is big enough to do his own job. If God will judge our father for choosing to follow the way of our ancestors, then let God do the judging, not Eugene” (95-96). Adichie uses Aunty Ifeoma’s assertion to show the readers that Eugene is allowing the Catholic religion to affect his judgement negatively. On the other hand, Eugene is in-denial and believes otherwise. Not only is he in-denial toward the effects of his religion, but he also believes his strict authoritative rules benefit his children. 
	Just as much as Eugene enforces his wealth and religion, he also enforces his very strict authoritative rules. Throughout the novel Adichie presents readers with multiple examples of Eugene’s strict rules. From the beginning of the novel to the mere end Eugene believes the best way to discipline his children is through beatings. “…He started to kick me. The metal buckles on his slippers stung like bites from giant mosquitoes… The stinging was raw now, even more like bites, because the metal landed on open skin on my side, my back, my legs” (210-211). Adichie uses some literary devices to allow Kambili to explain the vigorous beating she is receiving from her father. Although Kambili is getting beat, she manages to avoid the fact that the man she loves and looks up to is beating her terribly. Kambili is failing to realize that Papa is only beating her so she can benefit from the mistake she has made. According to The Complex Relationships Between Parents and Children by Jen Schiller, “Oftentimes a parent or set of parents will project their own expectations of life on their children. Sometimes these are failed ambitions, or wanting better for the child than they themselves were afforded” (Para. 2). Based on the information, all Eugene wants to do is give his children a better opportunity than he had, whether that means beating them until they are in the hospital. 
	Throughout Purple Hibiscus Adichie not only portrays Eugene as an abusive and violent man, but as a man who loves his family because he uses his vast wealth to support his loved ones, his strong belief in God to keep the family together and his strict authoritative rules to benefit his children. The novel presents readers with multiple scenarios and examples to display the significance and leaves readers with an open ending. With such an open ending some individuals may wonder “What will Kambili do next?” “How will Mama continue to cope with what has occurred?” 













Bibliography
Adichie, Chimamanda N. The Purple Hibiscus: A Novel. New York: Anchor Books, 2004. Print.
Schiller, Jen. “The Complex Relationships Between Parents and Children.” Inpathy Bulletin, 27 Oct. 2016, inpathybulletin.com/the-complex-relationships-between-parents-and-children/.
