(Insert Date)
660 Rosedale Road
Princeton, NJ 08540

DREAMS
Anytown

Dear Hiring Manager:

I am writing in interest of applying for a position as an Office Manager/Bookkeeper. My background includes working with the Boy Scouts of America in learning how to become a curious and kind individual. In addition to having earned my Eagle Scout award, I have held several leadership positions within the troop I belonged too, strengthening my ability to lead a group. I am currently enrolled in the Associates in applied science: Accounting program. 

As I am in the pursuit of an Business Administration degree with a concentration in Accounting, I have been employed by Dominos working as a Crew Chief. This has led to a boost in my management skills. We as management had learned a variety of different skills and knowledge. We have also worked within groups to better understand the products and services that the company had to offer as well as being able to bring better service to our customers. To better serve, we have adapted new procedures to help customer discrepancies, this resulted in a higher return rate of customers. Also, this has helped me gain a stronger ability in learning and adapting to ever changing rules and regulations. I have earned a Associates in applied science Accounting degree. While in that program I have gained valuable skills, and working knowledge in income tax procedures, Intuit Quick Books, and all units under Microsoft Office.

I am confident that I can become an Office Manager/Bookkeeper; coupled with my eagerness to lead and learn makes me a great asset to your team. Being an Eagle Scout I process an attitude that opens me to work in groups or individually under minimal supervision. It would be a great pleasure to arrange a time to discuss the skills I process with you. I may be reached at (555) 555- 5555 or by E-mail at samdoe@uni.edu.

Thank you for your consideration, I look forward to speaking with you regarding the Office Manager/Bookkeeper

Respectfully,



Sam Doe
