
Chumming the Water or Chumming the Media?
	A majority of people fear of sharks, and in most cases, this fear stems from a lack of knowledge. The media industry is a big player in determining how sharks are portrayed. As a forerunner for how information about sharks is distributed to the public, it is important that the media takes responsibility and displays sharks accurately, not as maniac killers with a taste for human flesh. The media should capitalize on their outreach to create an interest in sharks, through improving on their current methods of film and news coverage. By increasing the public’s education of sharks through the media, respect will arise, replacing the fear. This in-turn will lead to a peaceful co-existence with the ocean’s top predator.
	Sharks are a crucial part of the ocean’s ecosystem. As apex predators they regulate the prey, creating a cascading effect that ripples throughout the food web of the ocean. In a paper published by Oceana, the writer shows how diversity is created by the presence of sharks, stating “by preventing one species [of predator] from monopolizing a limited resource, predators increase the species diversity of the ecosystem. To put it simply, more predators lead to greater diversity” (Griffin, E. et al.). If sharks were to disappear from the ecosystem, which is rapidly occurring, the diversity of the area would drop harshly, leading to an unnatural balance in the food chain. The consequences of such leading to destruction of coral reef systems and commercial fisheries. Humans are rapidly destroying the global shark populations through activities like shark finning, using long-lines, pollution, and perhaps the biggest, though lesser known, through the media’s portrayal of these animals.
	The media industry reaches millions of people per day through various forms of social media and television. Many individuals look to the media as a reliable source of information. As a large industry, it is therefore responsible for the information that is distributed to the public. This vast outreach should be used as a platform to advocate for shark conservation and get the public to be more fascinated with sharks, rather than fearing them. Methods like this are already in place, like the hit summer special Shark Week that draws in a huge amount of viewers in each year. In 2015, 2.503 million viewers tuned in to the shark fest on the television (Moraes). Yet one week of the year is not simply enough, especially when considering the amount of Hollywood blockbusters cropping up demonizing these animals. 
The 1970’s movie Jaws is considered a classic, and shot the director Steven Spielberg to international fame. The classic score of this movie featuring a murderous shark with a taste for human flesh is now associated sharks everywhere. This movie swayed the public’s opinion on sharks so much that “in the years after the movie's release, the number of so-called kill tournaments spiked”, causing shark populations drastically decrease (Lovgren). More and more horror films starring sharks as the bad guys are arising each year, and while the reaction is not as direct as when Jaws was released, the bias still remains. The films 47 Meters Down and The Shallows are examples of such movies that recently been released featuring sharks with no other intention but to kill. However, there is still hope that these blockbusters can turn a positive light on sharks. These movies are drawing viewers in with the promise of gore and suspense, but why not use this interest to benefit the sharks. Proceeds from the ticket sales could go to shark conservation organizations, and at the same time use these films to promote an interest in sharks, prompting viewers to want to learn more. After all, it was the movie Jaws that led to my choice of career path as an adult; to research and tag the mighty Jaws himself, the great white. It is vital that the film industry capitalize on this opportunity to educate the public on sharks, as done in Shark Week, not only demonize them for the monsters they create them to be. Shark Week runs for one full week during the summer, featuring documentaries and specials on a variety of aspects about sharks. It lures in viewers with dramatic specials, like Phelps vs. Shark which consisted of a race between the great white and the Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, yet educates viewers at the same time. While Shark Week is a good platform for educating the public about sharks and advocating for shark conservation, it is not nearly enough. Steps can be taken in the right direction to improve the public’s knowledge, and in turn improve their attitude towards sharks with the addition of educational influences on shark horror movies and more educational specials like Shark Week. These methods are good for everyone, the media industry, the public, and the sharks as well. 
In addition to these “good profit” solutions, the reality and facts of shark attacks should be better provided. When shark attacks occur, the media is quick to pick up and exploit them. For example in the summer of 2015, there was an increase in shark attacks on the North Carolina coasts. There are on average about 3 attacks per year in this state, nearly all non-fatal, but during 2015 there was 8 attacks, many of which were just days apart, on in one case the same day (“Shark Attacks: The Database”). Many news sources began covering the attacks, and while some focused on the reasoning, such as warmer waters, increased population and food sources, there were not nearly enough. The focus does not need to be on the attack itself, but the causation behind the attacks. By doing so, it prevents the public from developing an unfair bias, but it allows them to recognize warning signs of “sharky waters”, and potentially keep out of harm’s way. The news media needs to make clear that when a swimmer or surfer steps into the ocean, they are stepping into the shark’s domain, and the shark is not the one to blame for taking an exploratory bite.
When someone reads an article about a shark attack or watches a horror movie featuring a shark as the main villain, an unfair bias is often created against all sharks. However, the general public is unaware that the Jaws they see on screen is little like the Jaws swimming in the ocean. One would think that the main source of this bias against sharks would be the victims of the shark attacks, but that’s not the case. Mike Casey, a white shark attack survivor, recalled how after his attack his buddies went out shark hunting, something he called “ridiculous”, he even wrote a letter to the Kauai newspaper stating “”I was bitten by a shark and I don't advocate killing them. These animals deserve our respect. We're on their turf."” (Yogis Unlikely Allies). If the victims of these attacks are advocating for the conservation, then the media should make sure that the public has the correct information instead of presenting a biased argument. It is also not widely known that there is a relatively low risk for shark attack. In fact in an article for live science discussing the reason as to why people fear sharks, it is explained that “[people are] at a much higher risk of dying of heart disease (1 in 5 chance), of cancer (1 in 7 chance) or in a car accident (1 in 84 chance) than [they] are of being the victim of a shark attack” (Palermo). Many people do not live their life in fear every day, so why is there a difference when it comes to sharks? 
By increasing the public’s education of sharks through the media, respect will replace the fear. It is therefore the media industry’s responsibility to provide the public with an accurate portrayal of sharks and make sure the public is aware of all the factors of an attack when it comes to news articles. It is also important to prevent a bias from arising from the media that is available like shark horror films. When used correctly these tools of the media can be a driving force in the effort for shark conservation, and in-turn a peaceful coexistence with these predators. Sharks are disappearing from the oceans rapidly, and the balance of the ocean’s ecosystem relies heavily on these animals. If the ocean’s ecosystem is disrupted, the balance of the rest of the  Earth will be disrupted as well. 













Works Cited
Griffin, E. et al. “Predators as Prey: Why Healthy Oceans Need Sharks.” OCEANA, 2008, 
http://oceana.org/sites/default/files/reports/Predators_as_Prey_FINAL_FINAL1.pdf. Accessed 24 October 2017. 
Lovgren, Stefan. “"Jaws" at 30: Film Stoked Fear, Study of Great White Sharks.” 
National Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2005/06/0615_050615_jawssharks.html. Accessed 25 October 2017.
Moraes, Lisa. “Shark Week 2015 Reels In 2.5 Million Viewers, Best Demo Ratings Ever.” 
DEADLINE-HOLLYWOOD, http://deadline.com/2015/07/shark-week-2015-ratings-record-1201362383/. Accessed 2 November 2017.
Palermo, Elizabeth. “Why Are People So Afraid of Sharks?” Live Science, 
https://www.livescience.com/51579-fear-of-sharks-psychology.html. 
Accessed 25 October 2017.
“Shark Attacks: The Database.” Shark Attack Data, 
http://www.sharkattackdata.com/place/united_states_of_america/north_carolina. Accessed 25 October 2017.
Yogis, Jaimal. “Unlikely Allies – How Surfers Are Helping To Save Sharks From Extinction.” 
Surfer, 27 December 2012, https://www.surfer.com/features/unlikely-allies/. Accessed 27 October 2017.
