The Hoax We Know as The American Dream

    The American Dream is interpreted differently across the world, but the common goal is to be wealthy and successful. For most it is impossible to obtain the American Dream due to the living conditions they are in. As of 2016, 40.6 million people were below the poverty line meaning that they were nowhere near reaching the American Dream. The wealthy are living what these people can only dream of. The poor will never reach their goal of the American Dream due to the unfair distribution of taxes, lack of jobs in communities, and an insufficient amount of support for changing the status quo.
    It is not a shock to anyone that the rich pay less in taxes. The question that rises the most is why do the wealthy pay less in taxes than any other class? Why do they get taxed when they have a higher income? It is unfair to the other classes who make less money than the upper class to be taxed at a higher rate. There needs to be equality in finances all around and not just for the wealthier. Politicians and other officials are sponsored by the wealthy but that does not give them a good enough reason to pass bills and make laws that benefit one group more than another. The lower class deserves a decrease in the amount that they are taxed. According to Forbes, 63% of the people making 23,500 and less will pay social security and Medicare taxes. The rich are given a break and taxed less than any other class, so they should take a tax increase to help the other classes. The people who do not have much are being taken away from war. How is it expected for someone to achieve their goal of the “American Dream” if taxes are consuming a substantial amount of their income?
    A lot of the inner cities are lacking a enough jobs in their communities for the amount of people living there. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, “The unemployment rate edged down by 0.1 percentage point to 4.1 percent in October 2017, and the number of unemployed persons decreased by 281,000 to 6.5 million.”  This is the amount of people who do not have a job and are struggling to financially be stable. The wealthy do not have to go through the situations people who are unemployed go through. Programs like welfare, housing, and food stamps are what a lot of people in our inner cities benefit from. In 2012, over 100 million people in the United States are now receiving some form of federal welfare. If these programs are taken we will have a lot more people homeless and a lot more people in jail. The result of taking away these programs are just moving people backwards on their journey to the American Dream. How are the poor expected to achieve their goal of the “American Dream” if we continue to take away government funded programs that are heavily depended on?
    A quote that fits this topic well is “survival of the fittest”, but this quote is not the most logical way to go about things. The “one percent” are the wealthy people, the upper class, the ones who are taxed the least. These people do not care about the living conditions of the other social classes they are too infatuated with wealth. Yes, they do notice how unfair things are for everyone but since they cannot benefit from helping they do not care. In the film “Money, Power, and the American Dream” Director Alex Gibney is quoted saying that the richest citizens in America “rigged the game in their favor” Meaning that the rich will stay rich and the poor will stay poor and that none of them wants to see it change. Even the gestures the wealthy give to the lower class shows they are not for a change in the status quo. “It is really like a magician trying to point people in a different direction, so they won't notice what's really going on” quoted from one of the interviewees in the movie. How can we expect the status quo to ever be equal if we do not provide the support he needs?
    Some may argue that there is nothing wrong with society and that no changes need to be applied. Ayn Rand (philosopher) believed that people should be selfish to an extent. She believed that if you worked hard for something you deserve it. They believed that they worked hard for what they have earned and do not see why they need to compromise their lives. As a country we create thousands of jobs so why do we need government funded programs? Why can’t they go get a job and work for it like the rest of us? The president was a billionaire before stepping into office and he is doing a lot of good to change the world. 
    The opposition makes valid points but not enough for a strong argument for why nothing should be changed in our society and social structure but not enough for a strong argument. Ayn Rand believed that if you were successful, worry about yourself and not how anyone else is living in impoverished cities. Paul Ryan a republican, has been compared to Ayn Rand which is not such a positive thing if you are a politician representing your country. Yes, jobs thousands of jobs are being created, but there over 323 million people in the United States and as of 2012, 46 million are living in poverty. Yes, we do appreciate the thousands of jobs, but it simply just isn’t enough. It is like trying to fill a pool with a cup. In conclusion, the poor will never be able to attain the American Dream. It is not possible with the conditions we are living in today. The lower class are being taxed more than what the wealthier people are. We do not have enough jobs in our inner-city communities so we use government funded programs which may very well be taken away. Lastly, the wealthy do not care about the living circumstances of anyone but themselves and so no need to improve a system that they benefit from. It pains me deeply to say this, but with the current attitude and circumstances in our society, the poor will never reach the American Dream.
