
FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATIONS AND THE FIGHT FOR WOMEN’S RIGHTS
	Although the Fourth of July is generally viewed as a day for all American citizens to come together and celebrate their independence, this is not always the case because certain groups like women, African American, and Native Americans do not have the same freedoms and rights that white men do. Over the years, women’s rights have been a common focus during Fourth of July speeches and protests because this day gives women the opportunity to show that, as Americans, they should have the same rights as men. 
	After the Revolutionary War ended and the United States gained its independence, women were still expected to be Republican mothers and care for the home and their children and stay out of politics. Many women were beginning to realize that it was unfair that they did not have these same rights that men had now that America had gained its independence from Britain. Early Fourth of July celebrations included events like parades, firing of cannons, and dinner parties, and women used these opportunities to take an indirect, nonviolent approach to begin fighting for their rights. In Antebellum Georgia, women “participated in a patriotic dialogue that tied gender, marriage, and family to civic and political harmony”. The women would fulfill their roles in hosting celebrations and supporting the men and would in turn be praised. Toasts were a common part of Fourth of July celebration dinners, and these toasts often emphasized chivalry and how men were supposed to protect their wives.[footnoteRef:1] These toasts were a small step forward in women’s rights because by toasting to them, men were showing women respect and acknowledging the role they played in the home and in society.  [1:  These toasts often took place at elite leaders’ Fourth of July dinner parties. The women were the hostesses, and the men would toast to them for their support of the military and for “enlivening the entertainment with their presence" (Kellison).] 

	By the 1870s, several feminist organizations such as the National Woman Suffrage Association and the American Woman Suffrage Association had been created, and women were taking more active approaches to demand their rights. On July 4, 1976, Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton presented the NWSA’s “Declaration of Rights of the Women of the United States,” which was a four-page document declaring that women should have the same rights as men, such as the right to vote and the right to a trial by jury.[footnoteRef:2] The document ended by saying, “We ask our rulers, at this hour, no special favors, no special privileges, no special legislation. We ask justice, we ask equality, we ask that all the civil and political rights that belong to citizens of the United States, be guaranteed to us and our daughters forever” (Dismore). These women used the Centennial Fourth of July Celebration as an opportunity to express how Americans were supposed to be free, yet women were not receiving the same rights and men, and they were ready to fight to gain these rights.  [2:  The “Declaration of Rights of the Women of the United States” was signed by twenty-four members of the NWSA and presented at Independence Hall in Philadelphia. It provided a stark comparison to the Declaration of Independence and showed how much work the government still had to do for all Americans to be truly equal (Dismore).] 

                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                         2
	Today many Americans celebrate the Fourth of July with fireworks, parades, and family barbeques, but some women still use it as a day to protest for the women’s movement. On July 4th, 2017, the Woman’s March organizers were planning a protest against the National Rifle Association. The NRA had released a video discussing how liberals "smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding" (Pereira). The Women’s March group sent a letter to the NRA’s president asking for a public apology and instead the 
NRA posted a video saying that the Women’s March would not receive the apology they were looking for. The Women’s March group decided to protest because the NRA seemed to be endorsing “violence against women, our families and our communities for exercising our constitutional right to protest” (Pereira). Instead of celebrating the Fourth of July, they chose to spend their day organizing the protest to fight against the NRA.[footnoteRef:3] [3:  The Women’s March group protested in a two-day rally on July 14-15, 2017, marching seventeen miles from the NRA headquarters to the Justice Department. Their main goal was to stop the violence that comes along with gun ownership. The group continued to receive negative responses from the NRA who said that the protest was childish and was asking for something that was contradictory to what the NRA stands for (Stein).] 

                                                                                                                                                                                         3
	Although it appears contradictory, the Fourth of July has been a common holiday over the years used to protest the women’s rights movement. Because the Fourth of July is a day to celebrate American independence, groups use it as a day to fight for their rights because it highlights the differences between the freedoms Americans are supposed to have and the ones they actually have. Women have used different tactics over the years, from passive actions such as supporting their families and being praised to taking active approaches and protesting as they became more fed up with their lack of rights. 
References
Dismore, David. "July 4, 1876: Suffragists Present “Declaration of Rights of the Women of the United States”." Feminist Majority Foundation. July 04, 2014. Accessed November 28, 2017. https://feminist.org/blog/index.php/2014/07/04/july-4-1876-suffragists-present-declaration-of-rights-of-the-women-of-the-united-states-to-pennsylvania-senator/.
Kellison, Kimberly R. "Men, Women, and the Marriage of the Union: Fourth of July Celebrations in Antebellum Georgia." Georgia Historical Quarterly 98, no. 3 (Fall 2014). Accessed November 28, 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.lib-.
Pereira, Alyssa. "Women's March Organizers Plan July Protest Against the NRA." SFGate. July 05, 2017. Accessed November 28, 2017. http://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/Women-s-March-organizers-plan-July-protest-11268140.php.
Stein, Perry. "Women's March Organizers Protest the NRA." The Washington Post. July 14, 2017. Accessed November 28, 2017. https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/womens-march-organizers-plan-friday-protest-of-the-nra-and-a-17-mile-march-to-the-justice-department/2017/07/14/a7c6d0ee-50c4-402c-9d51-b704c8d22a36_story.html?utm_term=.8d550b5bee6d.
