Subject: Community Service Reflection

Purpose:
Volunteering at the Habitat for Humanity Restore was a challenging, but rewarding experience. In this memo, I will detail the history and mission of Cape Fear Habitat for Humanity, describe the impact that I made for the store during my community service hours, and explain how my insight has grown on being an effective member of a non-profit organization.  

History and Mission:
Habitat for Humanity has been an active force for positive change since 1976. Its vision for the world is quite simple: to provide everyone a habitable place to live. Since its establishment, Habitat for Humanity has given access to affordable housing to more than 3,000,000 people through the repair and construction of thousands of homes intended as options for those who cannot afford to purchase a house through conventional means. Habitat’s mission is supported through its incredible culture defined by the following:

Habitat has established a “partnership housing” concept, which designates volunteers as key stakeholders in the creation of homes for their neighbors.

An open-door policy encourages people of all backgrounds to participate and network with one another within the program.

Various creative means of fundraising are employed throughout the organization, ranging from financial donations to profits from the sale of used goods in Restores, like the location at which I volunteered. 






My Impact:  
The Restore layout is very similar to that of a thrift store. All inventory, including used home goods, hardware, and furniture, is organized in a warehouse fashion and profits from customer purchases go to fund new affordable home projects. Because of these logistics, I was able to contribute in the following ways:

I assisted in unloading and registering donated merchandise to be placed on the sales floor.

I participated in the reorganization of inventory and the cleanup of excess cardboard and trash in aisle space.

The majority of contributors in the Restore program are volunteers, many of which are older in age. Because of my youth, I was able to unload heavy furniture donations, pieces which elderly participants would be unable to move. In addition, clear aisle space is critical for Habitat’s sales process. Trash and unused cardboard quickly collects in the warehouse and being able to dispose of this excess waste improved the quality of customer service for the operation. 

My Understanding:
Committing service hours to the Cape Fear Habitat for Humanity Restore was an awesome experience for me. On an obvious level, it felt great to give my time to a meaningful cause. But, perhaps the most awesome insight gained from my volunteer hours is knowledge gained on the culture of social responsibility within the organization.

Throughout my service, I received little direction as to tasks that had to be accomplished. To stay busy, I had to be independent in determining what work would be beneficial to complete. At first, I was confused and felt that maybe the Restore wasn’t in need of my help, but that wasn’t the case. I came to realize that the culture of Habitat is to motivate and inspire people to create their own effective contributions for positive change. Participants stayed busy, not because management instructed them to do so, but because they had their own vision as to how they could help. 

This attitude towards social responsibility showed me the most selfless and empowering side of human nature. With this culture in mind, I hope to continue my volunteering efforts and bring this mindset to all service related endeavors in which I engage.
