Shakespeare, Herrick, and Marvell
	Everyone has their own idea of getting old. For some, it is the time to retire, plant a garden, get a hobby, and relax after a life of hard work. For others, it is aches and pains. It is the lament over lost beauty or vitality. But for poets, the process of maturing is a prolific topic to write about. Three such poets who took on the passage of time in relation to ageing are Robert Herrick, William Shakespeare, and Andrew Marvell. Robert Herrick utilizes the sentiment of carpe diem in his poem “To the Virgins to Make Much of Time” in order to get youth to realize that one day, they will be old, so that is important to live now. For Shakespeare, in his Sonnets One, Eighteen, and Seventy-Three, it is to denote that aging is inevitable, but there are ways to kind of live forever. In “To His Coy Mistress”, Andrew Marvell offers somewhat of a strategy for lovers to fight the passage of time. 
	Herrick’s poem “To the Virgins to Make Much of Time”, has been considered by some to be a poem of seduction, however, it is more about the idea of carpe diem, or “seizing the day.” He starts it with: “Gather ye rosebuds while ye may” (Line 1). Why this allusion to rosebuds? Rosebuds were thought to symbolize innocence and youth. It was also thought to represent potential because it was an unopened flower. He continues: “This same flower that smiles today/Tomorrow will be dying” (Lines 3-4). This rosebud, when it opens, will begin to die. Unfurling begets maturity, and maturity is one step closer to withering and eventual death. 
Those are not the only lines in which evidence can be seen of carpe diem. In Lines Five, Seven, and Eight, Herrick writes, “...the sun...the sooner will his race be run/ And nearer he’s to setting.” This is a contrast statement between the sun--which as soon as it rises is all the more closer to setting--and the time of someone’s youth being short.  That is further backed up by, “That age is best which is the first/When youth and blood are warmer...Times still succeed the former” (Lines 9-10 and 12). Time is not going to stop for the young to be youthful forever. It is going to continue past it, and the young will cease to be young. Yet, Herrick does not mean to live life in a “YOLO” type fashion. He does not mean to live stupidly, but rather, “Then be not coy, but use your time...for having lost but once your prime/ You may forever tarry” (Lines 13, 15-16). He says not to play games while one is alive; go out and get whatever it is that is wanted because once youth is spent, there is nothing but time to take a leisurely pace. 
 Shakespeare’s idea of time is that ageing is ineluctable. It is going to happen one way or another and there is no stopping it. However, there is hope: there is a way to kind of live forever. “From fairest creatures we desire increase,” he writes, “That thereby beauty’s rose might never die” (Sonnet 1, Lines 1-2). One way he looks at preserving youth is by producing more of it. Beautiful people need to marry other beautiful people so that they can create children to remind others of that beauty.  But Shakespeare warns against selfishness in the face of time by saying, “But thou, contracted to thine own bright eyes...And, tender churl, mak’st waste in niggarding/ Pity the world, or else this glutton be,/ To eat the world’s due, by the grave and thee” (Lines 5 and 12-14). It is wrong to hoard beauty, to not share it with the world by refusing to generate more of it. Those who withhold their loveliness will only be remembered for taking their beauty to the grave with them. 
Another suggestion Shakespeare makes about youth can be seen in Sonnet Eighteen: “But thy eternal summer shall not fade...When in eternal lines to time thou grow’st” (Lines 9 and 12). In previous lines, Shakespeare states that all things will grow dim in life, whether it is by chance or fact, but that the subject of the poem will not grow feeble because “So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,/ So long lives this, and this gives life to thee” (Lines 13 and 14). As long as men are alive and they continue to see, they will find beauty. They will be able to see it, so the poem will be able to recount beauty of the subject and that will be what is eternal. 
A third proposal Shakespeare makes is that beauty can be transcendent through one person’s love for another. He starts the poem with “That time of year thou mayst in me behold...Upon those boughs which shake against the cold/Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang” (Lines 1 and 3-4). The seasons changing are an allegory for getting older as well as his use of sunset turning into twilight in Lines Five through Eight and the comparison to a paling fire in Lines Nine through Eleven. But, Shakespeare states, “This thou perceiv’st, which makes thy love more strong,/ To love that well which thou must leave ere long” (Lines 13-14). The companion to the narrator sees him or her getting old, but it does not matter. Love does not see age. A person does not stop loving another just because they are not what they once were. The companion’s love only grows stronger because he or she knows they will eventually no longer have the narrator. 
Andrew Marvell, on the other hand, takes a different approach to getting older. Construed by some to be a seduction poem as well, in “To His Coy Mistress”, Marvell recommends that the pair of lovers find a way to fight the passage of time. It is a poem littered with hyperboles such as “I would/ Love you ten years before the Flood/ And you should...refuse til the conversion of the Jews” that suggest the mistress is either genuinely playing coy or sincerely not interested (Lines 7-10). Marvell expounds on his love for his mistress and even tries to convince his lover by saying, “That long preserved virginity,/ And your quaint honor turn to dust. (Lines 28-29). Marvell tells his lover that time is hurrying ever closer and soon her charms will no longer apply, so that is why “while the youthful hue/ sits on thy skin like morning dew...let us sport while we may..let us roll all our strength and all/ Our sweetness up into one ball,/ And tear our pleasures...through the iron gates of life” (Lines 33-34, 37, and 41-44). They must live in the moment, in the now, barrelling through those gates of life before they get old and the worms start to eat their bodies. He concludes the poem with, “Thus, though we cannot make our sun/ Stand still, yet we will make him run” (Lines 45-46). Marvell uses this notion to plead with his sweetheart to not let time take advantage of them, but rather, let them take advantage of time. They can, and should, bend time to their will, and it is up to them to make the most of it.
