
Method
Participants
	College students from University between the ages of 18 and 21 were selected for research. Participants were not chosen based on age, race, gender, or ethnicity, but rather their involvement in the club, Shelter. All the participants are either apart of the County1 Humane Society or the County2 Humane Society. We chose 6 out of the 16 club members to interview based on when and where they volunteered with the group, and their willingness to participate. We chose the sample of participants based on who we volunteered with, which gave us more access to them for both interviews and field observations. 100 percent of the sample approached participated in the research. 
Procedure 
Interviews were conducted both on the way to volunteer and while volunteering at each of the respective animal shelters: the County1 Humane Society and the County2 Humane Society. We informed the participants of the purpose of the research and asked for their participation in answering interview questions. If they agreed to participate, we asked each of them the same series of questions relating to volunteerism in general and their own experiences and thoughts on volunteering. We recorded their reactions and answers during the interview, as well as any additional information the participants wanted to give regarding the subject. During club meetings and volunteering, we made group and individual observations about behavior and thought processes regarding the research topic. 
Justification 
We chose an ethnographic research method, which is “the written description of different peoples and their customs… including articles, field notes, monographs, and websites” (Morris, 2013, p. 83). To be able to understand the psychology behind volunteerism, we needed to focus on the people volunteering. In order to gather information, we conducted interviews and observed participants in the field. We chose this strategy above any other because of the size of Shelter and the information needed to answer the research question. Because the club is small, there would not have been enough information to analyze if we chose to use other strategies, such as surveys.
Data Analysis 
	We plan to analyze the results by summarizing the data gathered from interviews and field research. Using the transcribed information, we plan to find any comparisons in the data that will either support or negate our thesis. Using the supporting or opposing data, we can determine the psychology behind collegiate volunteerism, specifically in animal shelters.












References	
Morris, M. (2013). Concise Dictionary of Social and Cultural Anthropology. John Wiley and
Sons, Incorporated.
