 Near the End of the Rope
             
  
           Among the center and heart of the wild west lays a story that seems to be told and covered  back up once more. It's the revolution of the raising of freedom as a upbringing in slavery that also to seemed to catch a rymph. Slavery can be classified as its definition in the Oxford dictionary such as “ A condition compared to that of a slave in respect of exhausting labor or restricted freedom”. From the hostile living conditions, to deathful scorching labor and  growing of tobacco plantations, in humanine factors that raised among the southerns was a breeding place for the change in history we know of today.  It was in these conditions that freedom arose.
         The expenentional growth of the 17th century during the Virgina times was one that showed quite the signifIcances in the idea of slavery and an impact that changed international views as many believe that there is a stronger connection between what gave us freedom with the start of not being free at all. America was founded based on Europeans from the renture of Christopher Columbus, have it said never once stepped foot on the land that was discovered by the non-native indians, but the inner twin that “Indentured Servants” contributed to the power of money that came from the reason they were brought here to the lands to begin with. Soon plantation economy was based on land, as the tobacco industry took off in population in 1600s as it was made to seem like “Gold” finding among the Virgina area. As quoted from Doctor Proforesor Smith, “Plantation owners were the wealthiest and most powerful people in the Virginia colony. They controlled the government and were the ones who passed the laws”. This is important as not only were they made powerful through the wealth of tobacco plantations but through the help of slaves that made it possible as it was the wealth that gave the freedom to be surpoir which made the slaves to increased with the power given to the plantation owners. “Slave labor was an integral part of the economy of the North American colonies” ( Boundless- U.S History pg180), without it we may have never been able to be such a diverse country today leading to all other freedoms in acts of the civil rights movement that came to pass in result.
         The relationship between freedom was as the early Americans were embarking the  freedom to go into the richest of products being cultivated from the land, the need for slaves exceeded off by massive boat loads as it was a form to use them as  benefit and enrichen the land all for personal use of labor. With the raise now many and wealth raised awareness that plantation owners had to extent to government officials to keep the laws and binds with harsh and greater punishment as they, the plantation owners, were beginning to be out number creating a sense of fear among the idea of African American slaves revolting and going against what was their intended purpose of just labor. In the “Virginia Race Laws” (Article provided by Doctor Professor Smith) illustrates and provides an insight as with time punishment and consequences grew in reference only to protect what the english now Americans wanted to achieve in higher and solemnly own power without the feeling of being threatened. Example of this would be from “All persons except negroes to be provided with arms and ammunition or be fined at pleasure of the governor and council” ( VRL 1630) to “ …. English women that shall have such bastard child be a servant, she shall be sold by the said church wardens (after her time is expired that ought by law to serve her master)  for five years…. The child to serve as aforesaid.” (VRL 1691). These quotes show the significance to the expremest measures they believed would protect the freedoms only leading to the freedom of the one that the broken system had, and that was freedom for all.
        It's quite interesting to see the raise in national freedom that increase not just to have ownership of slaves but the rights to make laws that can justify your protection in any way, shape, or form. From regulating births to allowing the concept of rape in order to produce more slaves was all justified by the freedom that was given to the high hand in allowing these actions to be made. Till this day there is still controversial incidents that is caused among the race and color of the skin. From modern day situations such as the one in Charleston, North Carolina to back in the civil war in which ended the slave movements. 
             Many forms of freedoms can be from the civil war as what americans process to what we strongly believe in our stance in ensure the future of the nation. But the clear line is that as the 17th century came to being among virginas ground it was the raise in power that increased the positions of African slaves and slavery to grow hand in hand along the freedom for all. It was through the pain of the country, the pain of the slaves in which contributed to our freedom, as slavery was a time that rewrote the course of history in the american lands, in the time of change.