To: The class members and professors of ENG-292 Section 800
From: Sam Doe, student at University
Date: October 24, 2017
Subject: Informational Interview Analysis

After speaking with Ms. Casey Smith, Business professor of Community College I discovered some interesting things about the world of Accounting; payroll accounting specifically. On October 23, 2017 we discussed over the telephone and E-mail things about her previous job as a Payroll Technician. The following questions explain answers to my research into this field.
What information that you learned from this experience particularly surprised or enlightened you?
While I enjoy working with numbers, it can be frustrating in Payroll Accounting because if one is off by 0.10 cents then the error must be found in entire journal entries. This can take anywhere from five minutes to two hours. One must be patient when working as an Payroll Technician. Working as a payroll technician is like a puzzle, each individual employee has their own different things that are calculated into their pay such as: overtime pay, substitute pay, overload course hours and retirement pay. 
 
When one walks into a work environment with the skills and knowledge of that field of accounting then one may expect that it works the same way as the textbook examples. However, not all business and companies work this way. Every business environment has their own way of doing things and learning that structure takes time. While it can be overwhelming at first it will slowly become easier.

How has this assignment affected your future academic or career choices? For example, please discuss any changes to your future or how this assignment reinforced your academic/career choices.
To be honest this assignment did not affect my future academic or career choice. I love working with numbers and finding errors. Therefore, I want to work in the field of Bookkeeping (payroll/auditing) because I love finding mistakes and fixing them. It is the thrill of the hunt of finding the error makes it fun for me.
This assignment has overall reinforced my decisions to become an overall Bookkeeper in any type of accounting. One does not have to have strong skills (although preferred) walking into a business because every business is different in the way they handle their books. One can walk into a business with bare minimum skills such as Ms. Fisher and eventually get into the swing of things of how the business’s books are handled.
What are your future plans for informational interviewing/job shadowing as it relates to your path to career discovery?
My future plans include interviewing people from all different aspects of the accounting world in order to find that sweet spot I may fit in. As stated before, I love finding errors so being a Payroll Technician maybe the right job for me. Or auditing of business’s books (such as payroll) can be my calling. One just must continue to research and gather information until they find their goal. Who knows what the future holds, we all must live our lives to the fullest and find our true calling.
