 Constitution Protects Freedom

During the 1700’s colonists were fighting against the British King to separate themselves from the tyrannical government that had controlled them. Colonists were divided into two different groups; there were the patriots that wanted to get away from the British rule, and there were the loyalists whom wanted to stay a part of the British government. In 1776 American Patriots argued for their independence from Great Britain. Even though the patriots managed to gain freedom from Britain there was still fear. Americans feared their government would turn into a monarchy if the power was not controlled or distributed evenly, so in 1789 the U.S. Constitution was ratified. The colonists aimed to build the constitution to prevent tyranny through protecting freedom. 
To begin, the colonists feared of having a government like Britain. Britain consisted of one king that was not elected. This title as King was hereditary (Class Lecture). The decisions made by the King were not based upon knowledge because usually the King was not educated, therefore, their decisions usually didn’t protect the people’s freedoms (Class Lecture). This did not create political stability because the King’s power was not distributed evenly among members, and colonists were not able to impeach in order to get a ruler that colonists liked. 
Political stability was enforced in the Constitution because it approved impeachment. Tyranny was avoided because if the people believed their leader was too powerful they would have the right to vote them out of the government, and this helped maintain a stable government that wouldn’t become dominant (US Constitution). For example, if a President made erratic decisions and people believed it affected their freedom then they would have the right to impeach. On the other hand, the King was to serve until death, and the colonists’ opinion didn’t make a difference because he was not going to step down from royalty. 
American colonists aimed to create a system of checks and balances through a central government. The solution was to break up the government into three different branches; this included the Legislative Branch, Executive Branch, and the Judicial Branch (US Constitution). Each one has different powers assigned to them in order to make sure that one branch does not overpower the other (Friday Discussion). This helped maintain political stability and protect people’s freedom; with three divided branches it was easier to prevent tyranny because members of the government had an equal amount of power (Friday Discussion). For example, the President of the United States is the commander in chief of the Army, Navy, and Militia. However, he or she cannot declare war, it is a power only available to congress which is in the Legislative branch.
To add on, this assures that the President does not declare war without a motive like the Britain King would do. Another example of how the three branches use the checks and balance strategy is when it comes to making laws. Congress is able to make bills which is then sent to the President to approve or disapprove them, and this helps protect the freedom of the people because passing a bill from one branch to another helps get more ideas as to why it should be a law or why it should not be a law. This is better than the King’s strategy because if the King made a law people would fear to disagree due to the consequences that could occur. 
Also, the Constitution promoted liberty because people were allowed to vote for whom they desired to be in charge of the country. However, when this constitution was created the opening statement, “We the people of the United States”, did not include everyone; this statement referred strictly to the white property owning citizens (US Constitution, Friday Discussion). When James Madison wrote this document, it was directed to rich white men because they were considered to be educated, so this means that slaves and women could potentially not be protected under the laws. However, because today women are allowed to vote and slavery has been abolished the laws are applicable to everyone disregarding gender and race. 
Colonists feared a government where the amount of power was the priority of the leader. To fix that problem, the Constitution limits the President’s and congress’ term to build political stability. A President may serve four years in one term unless voted upon more than once (US Constitution). This helped prevent the same rule of a person from a long time period. People were afraid that if a President served too long they were becoming addicted to power. George Washington, the first President, thought it was important to have short terms because if they served long terms people would think the new government system influences tyranny. Washington was virtuous enough to step down after his third term to demonstrate power would not build a tyrannical government. (Class Lecture). 
In addition to a way that it created liberty for the people, the Bill of Rights in the Constitution has ten Amendments that protect people’s freedom. The number one Amendment is freedom of religion, press, assembly, speech, and petition (US Constitution). This one is most empowering because in Britain the King enforced Christianity, and with the first Amendment people are able to practice any religion. 
The Bill of Rights extends its powers to protect individual’s freedoms from all case scenarios. This includes quartering of troops without consent of the homeowner, right to a public trial, right to bear arms, and more. I believe the Bill of Rights is one of the most important parts in the constitution because it protects rights that people did not have protected when they were under the British rule. In Britain, if someone was to go into trial, the King would appoint a judge and if the judge declared that the person was guilty then that meant that the victim was guilty, and they had no right to fight for their innocence (Friday Discussion). 
In conclusion, when colonists got away from the British rule and created their own government, there was fear that if the government was not set up properly the same tyrannical rule would become a cycle. The U.S. Constitution was built to help protect individual’s freedom, and limit power to create political stability. Even though the Constitution is vague with terms such as “We the people”, it helped because today the statement applies to all individuals not just the rich white males. The colonists were able to build a politically stable government with the Constitution by including: impeachment, Bill of Rights, checks and balances, and a limit on presidential terms; because of this tyranny was avoided and freedom was protected.