

Among the millions of African slaves to cross the Atlantic were a sizable number of Muslims, who would struggle to uphold their religion in a new life of bondage. Slave narratives and studies of enslaved Mohammedans (the name used for Muslims at the time) show that they went to great lengths to uphold the five pillars of Islam: shahada (affirming God and the Prophet), praying five times a day, fasting during the month of Ramadan, paying alms to the poor and making a pilgrimage to Mecca. As slaves in America, they would not have to pay alms, and would not make a pilgrimage unless they did so before capture, but they could uphold shahada, prayer and fasting. This is a key feature in the narratives of Ayuba Suleiman Diallo and Omar ibn Said.
How many Muslims were slaves in America? It is estimated that hundreds of thousands were captured and sold-- as many as ten percent of those who crossed the middle passage.[footnoteRef:0] In Sylvanian A. Diouf’s study on the subject, he explains that in Africa, Muslims were intermingled throughout the population, and so they can’t be counted by ethnic population. The influence they had on the rest of the West African population, is clear though. Arabic literacy is promoted by Islam, so that the faithful may read the Quran without translation. It’s for this reason that Muslims operated Islamic schools across Western Africa, which were attended by people of all faiths, including women. Diouf writes, “literacy was widespread in Muslim West Africa, so much so that by the end of the nineteenth century the French estimated that 60 percent of all Senegalese were literate in Arabic.”[footnoteRef:1] Additionally, many African oral languages began to be written in the Arabic alphabet. Taken together, these fusion languages were called “ajami.” Muslims slaves brought their conviction for literacy with them across the Atlantic. In fact, it is a recurring focus of Muslim slave narratives[footnoteRef:2] [0:  Exact numbers are unknown. Slave traders categorized slaves by pseudo-scientific “breeds” and did not record their religion. Estimates are based off figures in Africa at the time, though Diouf suggests there is much more work to be done on the subject. Sylvaine A. Diouf, Servants of Allah (New York: NYU Press, 2013), 24-25, 100.]  [1:  Diouf, Servants of Allah, 25.]  [2:  Diouf, Servants of Allah, 23-25.] 

In 1730, Ayuba Suleiman Diallo was engaged in slave-trading on behalf of his Kingdom, and was captured and sold himself. Sold to a Maryland tobacco plantation, he frequently put down his work and went into the woods to pray. The owner’s son discovered him and began to throw dirt in his face each time he prayed, and so Diallo ran away to Annapolis. There Diallo was put in jail. His captors realized that, though he knew no English, he could speak and write in Arabic. They also recognized two words he spoke: “Allah” and “Muhammad.” Due to this and his frailty, they decided they “could perceive he was no ordinary Slave.”[footnoteRef:3] He was returned to his master, who then gave him light work and allowed him a place to pray. Word spread about him, and eventually abolitionists raised money to free him. He then learned English while travelling with them to England, where he continued to impress them as well as the nobility they introduced him to. He was considered very polite and witty. While there, among other feats, he wrote three full copies of the Koran from memory with no other assistance. Contact was established with his home, and in 1734, just four years after his capture, he returned to Futa (modern day Senegal), but not before working with one of his original jailers to publish his memoirs. Though printed by abolitionists, Diallo’s narrative reads more like an adventure story, as it doesn’t focus on the ills of slavery, but rather Diallo’s unique and fascinating story. [footnoteRef:4] [3:  Thomas Bluett, Some Memoirs of the Life of Job (London: Richard Ford, 1734), 22.]  [4:  Thomas Bluett, Some Memoirs of the Life of Job.] 

Omar ibn Said’s life appears strikingly similar to Diallo’s. He also came from Futa, but was taken into slavery almost a century after Diallo, in 1807. Omar was a scholar, who, by the time of capture, had studied under three Sheikhs for 25 years. In America, he was sold to a violent master, whom he called “a small, weak wicked man… a complete infidel, who had no fear of God at all.”[footnoteRef:5] Omar quickly escaped, only to be recaptured he was seen entering a church to pray. While imprisoned, Said found old coals in an ash pile and used them to write an Arabic prayer on the wall. This triggered curiosity in his jailers, who then toured him around to local educated people. This led to his purchase by a benevolent general in Wilmington, North Carolina. Under the general, he was not treated like a slave. He was allowed to study both the Koran and Bible, and was given no work. From capture until the end of his life, he continued daily prayers and observed Ramadan (the month of fasting). He actually completed Hajj (the pilgrimage to Mecca) before enslavement. Omar officially converted to Christianity in 1921,  but his 1931 autobiography was written in Arabic and opened with an extensive memorized passage from the Quran. Even his Presbyterian pastor said that Said was a faithful Muslim until death in 1864 (one year before the end of the Civil War).[footnoteRef:6] [5:  Omar ibn Said, “Autobiography Of Omar Ibn Said,” American Historical Review 30, no 4 (1925), 793]  [6:  Omar ibn Said, “Autobiography Of Omar Ibn Said;” Sarah Richardson, “Muslim, Merchant, Slave," American History 49, no 4 10 (2014), 10.] 

Diallo and Said’s narratives both tell us the story about high-born Africans whose benevolent masters save them from the horrors of slavery. Two more narratives fit this same niche—that of Adbuhl Rahhahman (a prince, who was freed and returned to Africa)[footnoteRef:7] and Nicholas Said (the son of a general, whole travels to 5 continents ).[footnoteRef:8] While fascinating, these narratives don’t provide much context for regular Muslim slaves in America. Diouf, in his book, studies slave narratives that make mention of Muslims, as well as documentation and narratives from places like Brazil and the Caribbean. Unfortunately, it wasn’t the common Muslim slave who could publish their story. [7:  T.H. Gallaudet. A Statement with Regard to the Moorish Prince, Abduhl Rahhahman (New York: Daniel Fanshaw, 1828).]  [8:  Nicholas Said, Autobiography Of Nicholas Said (Memphis: Shotwell & Co Publishers, 1783).] 

Regardless, the narratives and history of Muslim slaves in America we have contradict a simplistic view of Africans and of American slavery. Many slaves were educated and literate. Many Muslims remained faithful by upholding the five pillars of Islam to the best of their ability, even if they needed to do it under the guise of Christian conversion, as Omar ibn Said did. Numerous high-born scholar were curiosities who received special treatment. All told, the lives of Muslim slaves teaches us that the role of religion did not have a uniform role in slave life.


Bibliography

Bluett, Thomas. Some Memoirs of the Life of Job, the Son of Solomon, the High Priest of Boonda in Africa. London: Richard Ford, 1734.
Diouf, Sylviane A. Servants of Allah: African Muslims Enslaved in the Americas. New York: NYU Press, 2013.
Gallaudet, T. H. A Statement with Regard to the Moorish Prince, Abduhl Rahhahman. New York:  Daniel Fanshaw, 1828.
"Pillars of Islam." In The Oxford Dictionary of Islam. , ed. by John L. Esposito. Oxford Islamic Studies Online, http://www.oxfordislamicstudies.com/article/opr/t125/e1859 (accessed 13-Nov-2017). 
Richardson, Sarah. "Muslim, Merchant, Slave." American History 49, no. 4 10 (2014):10
Said, Nicholas. The Autobiography of Nicholas Said: A Native of Bornou, Eastern Soudan, Central Africa. Memphis: Shotwell & Co Publishers, 1873.
Said, Omar ibn. "Autobiography Of Omar Ibn Said, Slave In North Carolina, 1831." American Historical Review 30, no. 4 (1925): 787-795.
