Symbolism: A Deeper Meaning to What Palms Signify
	According to the English Oxford Dictionary, palms are “an unbranched evergreen tree of tropical and warm regions and typically having old scars forming a regular pattern.” The characters throughout Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche’s coming-of-age novel, “Purple Hibiscus,” are shown to resemble this plant. The reader follows the Achike family and other significant characters which, in return, helps to develop the symbolization of palms. The importance of palms is shown through the characters’ actions; its connections with the characters are quite subtle. Although palms are represented infrequently throughout the story, it leaves a lasting impression on the readers’ feelings towards the characters. Adiche’s use of palms helps to symbolize the characters’ triumphs, failures and personality traits.
	The palms are used throughout the story to signal victories that the characters claim. In the online article “How Palms and Palm Strips Came into Christianity,” in ancient Near Eastern and Roman culture, a lawyer would often embellish his front door with palm leaves after having a successful case. They are made of use similarly in the novel when the main character, Kambili, mentions that, “the first week after the coup, Kevin plucked green tree branches every morning and stuck them to the car, lodged above the number plate, so that the demonstrators at Government Square would let us drive past. The green branches meant Solidarity” (Adichie 27). There is not any significance set towards what type of tree branches Kevin, the family’s chauffeur, is holding. However, what is necessary to know is that the leaves are green. Through the action of carrying the tree branches, this is shown as a commemoration with the demonstrators about the government being overthrown. Adichie also incorporates foreshadowing at the very beginning of the book to accentuate the meaning of the palms. The reader observes Kambili’s thoughts, as she narrates:
Mama placed the fresh palm fronds, which were wet with holy water, on the dining table and went upstairs to change. Later, she would knot the palm fronds into sagging cross shapes and hang them on the wall beside out gold-framed family photo. They would stay there until next Ash Wednesday, when we would take the fronds to church, to have them burned for ash. Papa, wearing a long, gray robe like the rest of the oblates, helped distribute ash every year (Adichie 3).
Papa and the ashes are intertwined in a subdued manner, as the highlight of the end of the book is influenced by Papa’s death. It is shown that that whomever hands out the ashes is the person who will encounter death and Mama is the one who causes this to happen. Through the events that occur in the characters’ lives, palms are given a greater meaning than they have ever had. 
	The writer carefully places palms in areas of the story to represent defeat. Kambili recalls the experiences that she shared with Jaja about getting disciplined by their father, stating, “when Jaja and I were younger, from elementary two until elementary five, he asked us to get the sticks ourselves. We always chose whistling pine because the branches were malleable…from the gmelina or the avocado” (Adichie 193).  The branches illustrate something similar to a device used to reprimand. Thus, the person must overcome the “failure” that holds them back from their state of “righteousness.” As Father Amadi joins the female main characters, and as they arrive in Aokpe for their pilgrimage, they hear people shouting, “see, there on the tree, that’s Our Lady” (Adichie 274). Kambili is the only one of the characters who sees an apparition of the Virgin Mary “underneath a huge flame-of-the-forest tree” (Adichie 274). Kambili is starting to find her own spiritual ground for the first time and this can be represented as more of a religious separation from the bond that she shared with her father. Papa failed to raise Kambili as the pious and meek daughter that he always expects from her. As much as the palms signify success, Adichie makes it evident that as much as a person gains something beneficial, they can lose it with a blink of an eye. 
	Finally, the reader starts to discover specific details that’ help to give meaning to the novel’s characters. Palm trees are internationally known to be prominent features in settings such as the tropics or utopias. As Adichie continues using palms as an important symbol, the reader can conclude that the palm trees represent Papa-Nnukwu’s “utopia.” The writer utilizes Kambili to thoughtfully describe Papa-Nnukwu, mentioning that, “we all sat and had breakfast with Papa-Nnukwu, listening to him talk about the men who tapped palm wine in the village...after the sun rose. I could tell that he missed the village, that he missed seeing the palm trees the men climbed, with the raffia belt encircling them and the tree trunk” (Adichie 162). While the reader has the universal idea of palm trees defining paradise, it is possible to think that Papa-Nnukwu passes away because of his lack of palms that he needs to survive. One can compare this to a palm tree being removed from its usual biosphere and into a winter solstice. Just as much as a palm tree demonstrates healing, it can also equate to pain and suffering. As Kevin warns Kambili and Jaja about Papa’s fifteen-minute time limit with their grandfather, Kambili describes Kevin as, “having fallen from a palm tree in his hometown in the Niger Delta area, a few years ago while on vacation. The scar from the center of his head to the nape of his neck. It was shaped like a dagger” (Adichie 63). Kevin is extremely subservient towards their father. This is demonstrated when he states to the children, “your father said you are to stay fifteen minutes” (Adichie 63). Mama and Kevin both exemplify how dangerous it is being under Papa’s reign, with both getting physically and mentally abused by him. Being able to know distinct details about the characters helps the reader to understand the actions they conduct in the story.
	The symbols arranged throughout the plot of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s “Purple Hibiscus” helps to give more insight behind the character’s feelings and actions. The symbol of palms, for instance, drives deeper into the characters’ importance in the novel, whether they are main or minor. Adichie has the reader focus on palms particularly to see their trials and tribulations, their accomplishments as well as any contributions towards character development. Without symbols, the characters and the plot become simply two-dimensional and are not given the life they are meant to have.
	
	







Works Cited
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple hibiscus. Alonquin, 2003.
“How Palm & Palm Strips Came into The Catholic Church and Christianity.” F.C. Ziegler Company, 8 Mar. 2016, www.zieglers.com/blog/how-palm-palm-strips-came-into-the-catholic-church-and-christianity/.
