	Love is an intense feeling of deep affection or used to express feeling toward a person. The two sculptures provide was one the word love with the L, the O, stack on top of V and E while the second sculpture is a man and a woman making out on top of a rock naked. Both sculptures have similarities and differences in setting, symbolism, and lighting. When it comes to love and sculptures, people compare the two based on emotions, visual characteristic, and personal desire. In setting, you will see how I felt the location affected both pieces of the work and different details. Both symbolic meaning and lighting will give you the overlook based on the similarities and differences that I have noticed. 
The setting can be very broad perspective for an artist to put a sculpture down to give the people a new way to look at an area. Both statues are in public places however where the location of the sculptures are shown how love could be private even in the human eye. Society feels that where any pieces that are used to show love can be put into different areas for us to feel different aspect of love. Based on the placement of the statues, they are both in areas that will receive great lightening although, the second sculpture can be viewed from any angle and the first sculpture can only be viewed from the front due to how it is built. Based on the perspective on the first statue, the artist could have wanted you to be able to see the statue when driving. The second sculpture was made to have a three-dimensional effect so you would be able to see what is happening in the sculpture. The statues can be placed anywhere and can be seen during any weather change even though the second sculpture could be in a museum or temple which is the private-public place, but the first sculpture is located outside in the public eye. As you can see setting gives the sculptures a broader aspect for us to see.
	Symbolism is always there to provide a different answer or out view of what we see and how we feel. In the sculptures, they show the feminine and masculine aspect of love even though, the second sculpture is showing the action of love while the first sculpture is just expressing the word love. Even though many people like the action of love some prefer the word or the definition of love. How close the objects were built in the sculptures shows the balance you need for love comparatively speaking, the second sculpture show the aspect version of love that people see that the word that people just hear as in the first sculpture provided above. The colors on the first sculpture shows how the feminine figures run the relationship while the blue shows how the masculine figures are just there for support and the lady in the sculpture is pulling the guy in taking over the moment however, the color in the first sculpture is brighter to show the version people think of when it comes to love while the second sculpture is what the tv and movies produce of love. Symbolism for the sculptures gives us different meaning for the two based on appearance, how we feel about each piece, and the aspect we see. 
Lighting can always give a painting, a movie or a sculpture more depth for viewers. Using three different lighting and colored background on the sculptures to show the different stages of love yet, the second the sculpture as a darker background to let the sculpture have a glow to show love. The lighting on the street and the lighting in the museum give both sculptures more depth nevertheless, the first sculpture will have different lightening within the changes day which will give it more of a dramatic effect. On certain parts of the sculptures, there are dark lighting to give the broad three-dimensional affect yet, the dark lighting of the second sculpture is setting a tone for a sexual intercourse. Lighting can bring an effect to the human eyes, so you can see the sculptures in a different perspective. 
	Love can be expressed as an action or used in a phrase. Setting, symbolism, and lighting were used to show the different levels to provide us different characteristic of each statue. I feel that the first sculpture gives the world a better view of love and many people can see it from different aspects. The second sculpture, has more depth, more features that can be portraited as a real-life event. Two different sculptures I was given helped me realize even though they are different some characteristics can be the same.
