Identity
	As James Fearon says in his essay “What is Identity (As We Now Use the Word)?” the idea of identity “remains something of an enigma” (1). I agree with this. There are probably hundreds of social categories that help make up my identity. I’m a woman, a college student, middle class, Jewish, a Millennial, and a writer. I won’t always be all of these things. I will graduate college, I may change social class, and I may decide that I actually hate writing. All of these things don’t describe everything I am as a person. Even so, right now, these things feel like integral parts of my identity. 
	According to the Department of Labor, women make up almost 47% of US workers. The National Center for Education Statistics says that this semester, there are about 11.7 million women attending college in the US, and that they make up the majority, compared to 8.9 million men. That is a lot of progress, so even if being a woman isn’t always wonderful, I’m optimistic. My grandmother grew up in the 1950s. When she was the same age I am now, she wasn’t in college. She was married. That was what was expected of her, so she didn’t get to go to college and get a good job until my mother and uncle were teenagers. 
The way I was raised is so different from the way my grandmother was raised. My dad stayed home with me while my mom worked, so I never questioned the fact that I’d be able to get an education and have a career. I don’t feel so limited by being a woman- in fact, I’d say I have a fair amount of privilege compared to other women. I have a cousin who’s beautiful, blonde, and very feminine. Even though she’s also super-smart, talented, and successful, it seems like people mostly just care that she’s pretty. When she was in high school, I remember my mom saying “It’s too bad she looks so much older than she is.” I didn’t understand what my mom meant at the time, that since my cousin was so pretty and so grown-up, certain men felt like they could say creepy things to her, and even other women didn’t see past her pretty face and pretty hair. In my case, “You’re so pretty!” isn’t the first compliment I get. My intelligence and talent seem to be worth more to people just because I’m not extraordinarily beautiful or girly. It feels like if I decided to become ultra-feminine, people would not take me as seriously. 
I’m a college student, just like 20.4 million other people in the United States this fall, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. I’ve met a lot of people who are the first person in their family to go to college, or even the first to graduate high school. My story is completely different. I don’t remember the first time my parents talked about how I was going to go to college— it was probably before I even started going to school— but I do remember a conversation I had with my dad in the beginning of ninth grade.
“If you start getting straight-A’s now, you’ll be able to get into MIT. I’d have gotten in if my grades had been a little better, so you’ll have to do better than I did,” my dad said.
“Okay. I’ll try to get straight-A’s,” I agreed, imagining how proud my parents would be when the acceptance letter showed up from MIT.
“I know you can do it,” he said. “You’re smart enough to get a 4.0 with just a little bit of work.”
He was wrong. I didn’t have the work ethic in high school to get straight-A’s, and I didn’t bother applying to MIT, because I knew there wasn’t any chance I’d get in. But what’s important about this exchange is that it shows that I grew up with a family that constantly pushed me to get good grades and get as much education as possible. My dad, the math whiz with a degree in aeronautical engineering, put a little too much store in my abilities, but also told me all the time that I was smart enough to do whatever I want. My mom, the archeologist, has always encouraged me to be creative and to go to grad school. 
I come from the kind of family who would have expressed a lot of shock if I’d said “I’m not going to college. I’m joining the Navy.” That wouldn’t just be because I’m the last person you’d expect to see in the military, but also because I was raised thinking that I had to go on to some kind of higher education right after high school, even if it was just community college. Every career I’ve ever thought of doing has required at least a bachelor’s degree. I can’t imagine what it must be like to be someone for whom college has never been an option, because for me, college has always been the only option. 
With all the educational privilege I grew up with, it almost seems absurd to call myself middle class, but I am. I’ve been lower middle class my whole life. My parents are educated, but for a long time, we only had one income because my dad couldn’t get work. All my clothes are from Target. One time, my mom was talking about someone who had a summer house, and I was shocked.
“How can someone have two houses?” I asked, wide-eyed.
It’s not like I can’t imagine owning a house. My parents own the little house I grew up in, even if it’s a hundred years old and falling apart. But two? I know for a fact that my parents spent all the money they had on their house and still had to take out a loan to pay for it. They’ll probably never be able to move, because they finally paid off the house this year, after living there for 18 years. If this sounds like complaining, that’s not my intention. I’m incredibly lucky to be middle class, when I could just as easily have been born to parents who couldn’t afford to feed me. It’s just an odd experience, being in the middle, shocked to find out how much better and worse other people have it. 
I’m ethnically Jewish. Although many people are surprised to hear I consider that an ethnicity (“It’s a religion, not an ethnicity! That’s like saying Christianity is an ethnicity!”), Ashkenazi— European—Jews share a lot of genetics and traits. It’s as much an ethnicity as any other group of closely related people from a similar geographic area. People are also surprised to learn that we have a lot of cultural traditions that aren’t directly tied to religion. I’m not a religious person at all— I’m an atheist— but my culture is still important to me. 
European Jews are one of immigrant groups that W. Ralph Eubanks mentioned in his article “Color Lines”, the ones who had to work on being considered white to gain acceptance into mainstream American society (6). I’m a fifth generation American. My great-great-grandparents on my mother’s side did not speak English. They spoke Yiddish, a form of German written with Hebrew characters. It was very difficult for them to fit in in America. Even though I’m pretty much as American as baseball, sometimes it feels like I don’t fit in in America either. For a long time, I didn’t want people to know I was Jewish. I was scared of how they might react, because I’ve grown up hearing people saying horribly bigoted things about Jewish people my whole life. People often don’t realize that the things they say are racist. My most telling example of this is from sixth grade. Some boys in my class were calling someone they didn’t like “a Jew”. I got very angry at them and told them they were being mean and racist. They just laughed at me, and said, “You can only be racist against black people.” 
Through “becoming white”, I think European Jews have gained a lot of acceptance and privilege, but it also means that no one believes that prejudice against us matters, even when white supremacists and neo-Nazis make it clear that we’re at the top of their list of people they hate. That tends to be disheartening when all you want to do is be proud of your heritage.
In an article for Time Magazine, Joel Stein, citing a study published by the National Institutes of Health, wrote “the incidence of narcissistic personality disorder is nearly three times as high for people in their 20s as for the generation that's now 65 or older…58% more college students scored higher on a narcissism scale in 2009 than in 1982.” I think that perfectly sums up how the older generations think of my generation. The author doesn’t think we’re defined by the data and the elderly people complaining about us, and he thinks we haven’t had enough of chance to show what we’re really capable of, but a lot of people might read the statistics and think that’s all they need to see. 
My English teacher in high school was fond of claiming that we had more mental health problems than his generation because we’re always on Facebook or Twitter or Snapchat. There could be some truth to that, because it’s probably not so great for your health in general to always be looking at a screen. I just don’t like the implication that “you would rather be on your phones than talking to people and that’s why you all have depression!” It seems to me that most people in my generation have perfectly fine social skills and their mental health is in good shape. Personally, I have mental health problems, and I can easily see where they were inherited from in my family. The technological advances of the 21st century are not to blame. 
Despite the criticisms and our genuine shortcomings, I’m glad I’m a Millennial. I’m equally comfortable with VHS tapes and smart phones. I grew up watching the world change rapidly. I wouldn’t trade that in to have been born in a different time, even though it would be pretty neat if I remembered the 90’s. 
It’s probably obvious from how long and wordy this essay has been so far, but I like to write. That’s not something that a lot of my friends understand. I see their point, because I must seem like a crazy person when I actually get excited about the prospect of writing a paper. Writing is just something I’ve always enjoyed, and it runs in my family. My grandfather on my dad’s side was a published author (not one anyone has ever heard of, but still published). 
Without even realizing there are tons of writers in my family, I “wrote” and illustrated my first story when I was four. It was about a little girl who was best friends with a mermaid and became a mermaid so she could spend more time with her best friend. My parents thought I was so clever for writing that, even though it was basically a platonic version of The Little Mermaid where a person turned into a mermaid, instead of vice versa. Wanting to write stories has a pretty huge impact on how I see the world. I’m always describing things in my head, trying to figure out how I’d write about them. Writing sometimes distracts me from doing actual schoolwork, and I have to stop. I don’t even know what I’d be like if I didn’t like to write, so it’s an incredibly important part of who I am. 
Why does any of this matter? Without these categories I can put myself into, I wouldn’t be exactly the same person as I am now. If I was an upper-class 40-year-old man, my experience would be different, so who I was would be a little different, too. By explaining six things I am, I helped explain who I am.  

Works Cited
 Fearon, James. “What is Identity (as we now use the word)?” Unpublished manuscript, Stanford University, 1999. web.stanford.edu/group/fearon-research/cgi-bin/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/What-is-Identity-as-we-now-use-the-word-.pdf.
DeWolf, Mark. “12 Stats About Working Women”. U.S. Department of Labor Blog. United States Department of Labor, 1 March 2017, https://blog.dol.gov/2017/03/01/12-stats-about-working-women.
“Back to school statistics.” National Center for Education Statistics, United States Department of Education, 2017, nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=372.
Eubanks, W. Ralph. “Color Lines” remix: reading and composing culture, edited by Catherine G. Latterell, 3rd Edition, Bedford St. Martin’s, 2017, pp. 59-66.
Stein, Joel. “Millennials: The Me Me Me Generation.” Time, Time, 20 May 2013, time.com/247/millennials-the-me-me-me-generation/.
