With being the head of the household, you are required to care for everyone in the house. Usually with love and care but some lie about what they really do. Eugene portrays himself to be loving and caring towards his family meanwhile his actions are contrasting his claim. In the novel  “Purple Hibiscus” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Eugene’s complex relationship with his family is very violent. As sad and upsetting it is, he does things just do it and does not care how it makes his family feel. Eugene abuses Kambili, Jaja, and Mama in many different ways in which they are afraid of him. 
Kambili is 15 years old and honestly is the person in the family that actually keeps them together and is the peacemaker. She likes for everything to be normal and for everyone to be happy. Although, Papa does a couple things that are not exactly considered right. The first thing that he does is makes Kambili and Jaja take a “Love Sip” everytime he gets his tea. Kambili likes taking this sip of tea because she likes receiving Papa’s love. She also burns her tongue every time she takes this sip which is very cruel to burn you children's tongues and cover it up by saying that it is a love sip so that they will drink it and tr to feel some type of love from their father. Papa does not show them love and affection, he abuses them. Papa also catches Kambili and Jaja taking comfort in the painting of Papa-Nnukwu and he beats Kambili so bad that she had to go to the hospital and was in critical condition. As a 15 year old girl being abused by her father, the writer feels as though she does not deserve what she has been through all because of the type of person Kambili is. She is one to always do right and do good in school just to make her family and or her father proud but it seems as if everything that she has done was never enough and it's sad to say that she spent 15 years of her life trying to make someone happy that never appreciated anything she did.
Jaja as the older brother does things that he wants to do and or that he thinks is best for him. He may encounter an argument or a fight over a decision that he has made but he takes it and deals with it because his mind is made up. He shows this when he decides not to go to church and receive communion. Papa was very upset with him and they had an argument in which resulted in him throwing his missal at Jaja. Although he missed, he hit a shelf that had Mama’s figurines in it and they broke. Jaja then hits his finger on the etagere which results in his finger being broken. The figurines  meant a lot to Mama but of course Papa did not care, all he cared about was the fact that Jaja did not go to church and receive communion. As things go along in the household, Jaja is forced to put up with the things that Papa says and does all because he knows he can not beat his father so he just has to take it. Towards the end of the novel, Jaja takes control of things when he takes the blame for Mama poisoning Papa which resulted in him dying but also the fact that Jaja went to prison in place of his mother.
As the mother of the household, Mama is actually very weak. Not only does she watch her husband abuse her children, she gets abused as well. As mentioned before, Papa threw his missal at Jaja and missed which resulted in Mama’s figurines being broken and she was very upset but did not say anything in her defense of her things being broken. Beyond everything Papa had a strong control over Mama which resulted in her many miscarrages. She would often sit in the car after church and Papa would tell her to come back because he thought it was rude but she honestly just wanted to be alone because she had just had a miscarriage. There has been plenty of times when Mama was very excited about being pregnant but then she would always lose it because of her being abused by her husband. There is always so much that a person can take and sooner or later Mama reached this point. She got pregnant and was so happy about it and of course her husband abused her which caused yet another miscarriage. This time Mama got out of a cab limping, arriving at Nsukka. Kambili and Jaja have seen this plenty times before and is some what used to seeing their mother like this.At this point Mama is very tired mentally and physically because of all the abuse she has been going through so she eventually starts putting poison in Papa’s tea every night which soon kills him. This is very tragic but also a weight lifted off of Mama, Kambili, and also Jaja because they do not have to deal with any type of abuse any longer. 
Domestic Violence is something that everyone should take serious. It can actually really damage a person inside and out. Although some people will just accept the abuse, there is so much that a person can take which can lead to many different results. In this case, Papa was poisoned by Mama which automatically made the writer feel as though she reached her breaking point.  Some things can only require a conversation and the writer honestly thinks that everything that happened in this novel that lead to some type of violence, could have been solved by a conversation.
Works Cited
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2012. Statistics. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://ncadv.org/statistics
