

	If someone’s social media page says “private,” is the profile really obscured from the public eye? Every day, a notification appears on a person’s phone, saying that a friend’s status has been updated. Although that friend posts something on that “private” account, large companies are able to access databases and snoop on people’s accounts. It’s not an unusual thing that happens, such as when officials investigate a crime that recently occurred and are trying to get an advantage over a criminal by observing their social media. However, there seems to be a big issue these days: organizations using other people’s posts and status updates for their own personal gain. In “Facebook is Using You,” by Lori Andrews, warnings are given to the reader about the dangers of using social media and how they will terribly affect their life. In Andrew’s essay, she argues that stereotypes, organizations intruding in people’s personal lives and the lack of law regulations are the reasons why people should stray from the use of popular social networking sites.
	 The author describes data aggregation as, “what other people whose likes and dislikes are similar to [someone else’s] have done.” [Try to avoid starting a paragraph with a quote. The topic sentence should introduce what the paragraph is about – it should be your idea. Starting with a quote robs you of this opportunity.] Data aggregators tend to collect data based on people’s similar features. The article discusses that data aggregators can have a major influence on someone’s financial status, which can be in jeopardy based on the exact location of where that person is. In one situation, a man from Atlanta’s credit limit decreasing, “was not based on anything he had done but on aggregate data.” The company, American Express, told the man that “other customers who have used their credit card at [their] establishments...have a poor repayment history.” The previous customers, who more than likely had no relationship with that man, had a major impact of his future just from their own personal disadvantages. The article also discloses that since guitar players or divorced couples have a higher potential of retreating from paying their credit card bills, then “[looking] at guitar ads or [sending] an email to a divorce lawyer might cause a data aggregator to classify you as less creditworthy.” Andrews compares guitar players and divorcing couples, who do not have much relation to each other, with how they both can be unfairly categorized as being unreliable based on their previous purchases or searches. Data aggregators cannot only collect information from people’s social networking accounts, but they will also use the information for anything that will help to benefit them along the way.  
	Companies are also not afraid to use people’s private details to weed out whatever they deem is “bait” towards people who they are trying to track down in order to gain an upper hand. This is especially shown when the writer says that, “a company called Spokeo gathers online data for employers, the public and anyone else who sees it.” Keep in mind that the information collected by that certain employer may not be the kind that someone may not want, even people close to them, to view. It has also been said that, “United States Citizenship and Immigration Services...scrutinize photos and posts to confirm family relationships or weed out sham marriages.” [ Who says this? Make sure to make your sources clear.]  According to Fox News Tech’s article, Spokeo a Growing Threat to Internet Privacy, Cyber Security Experts Warn, “[Spokeo] purports to know your income, religion, spouse's name, credit status and the number of people in your household. It even offers a satellite shot of your house, complete with an estimated value.”  Someone’s legal status in the United States can be determined at the hands of anyone who sees something that does not settle well with them. The lack of privacy can really take a toll on someone’s comfortability, whether it is legally or physically. 
	The lack of privacy originates from the lack of law regulating towards people’s personal data. Data aggregators have the permission from the U.S. government to obtain information about citizens. Andrews discusses in the essay that, “even though laws allow people to challenge false information in credit reports, there are no laws that require data aggregators to reveal what they know about you.” She explains that they tend to base topics such as “health and proclivities” by depending on recent searches over the Internet that may be related to one’s actual well-being or tendencies. The article states that, “because no laws regulate what types of data these aggregators can collect, they make their own rules.” Since there are no strict laws that pay much mind towards the safety of people’s confidential information being exposed, companies have the right to do whatever they please with the newly collected data. There is no law that puts a limit to how much information is being circulated to whom and to how many people.
	A new light is given to the Internet through Lori Andrew’s article, “Facebook is Using You,” and it is not in a positive one. As far as she knows, not enough people are acting upon the outrageous idea of strangers having the ability to access things such as Google searches and previous purchases that are typically considered confidential. With technology on the rise nowadays, it’s only going to become simpler for data aggregators to take hold of information that can damage a person’s future. Although people will more than likely be tempted to put their accounts on “private,” confidentiality currently seems to be a figment of people’s imagination these days. [Saying both “currently” and “these days” is redundant. One of these is sufficient to convey your idea that this is what is happening now.]
	


















Works Cited
Kennedy, X. J., et al. The Bedford reader. Vol. 13, Bedford/St.Martin's, 2017.
Brandon, John. “Spokeo a Growing Threat to Internet Privacy, Cyber Security Experts Warn.” Fox News, FOX News Network, 19 Jan. 2011, www.foxnews.com/tech/2011/01/19/spokeo-cyber-security-warn-threat-privacy.html.
