Diagnostic


Brent Staples in his essay, “Black Men and Public Space” takes his audience on a journey of discovery. He uses his personal experiences to let the reader feel what it is like to be a black man in a public space. Staples brings his essay to a closing by stating some strategies that he believes makes him “less threatening” to others. He does these things to make others in society feel more comfortable with him and his behavior. Brent Staples shouldn’t have to adopt such strategies to make the world more okay with his presence.
One of the strategies Staples says he uses is walking by the loby of a building when he is walking behind “people who apear skittish” as to not frighten them. He does not want to “seem to be following them”. Just because he is a black man, people generally tend to get nervous around him. He is “being perceived as a dangerous hazard in itself”. Society shouldn’t teach their young and old people alike to be afraid of a person just because they are black, especially a black man.
Staples “whistles melodies from Beethoven and Vivaldi” when he’s in the subway station to keep people calm. This gives everyone ease since “a mugger wouldn’t be warbling bright, sunny selections from Vivaldi”. He compares it to the cowbell that hikers wear when they know that theyr’e in bear country. He is presenting himself as non threatening just to make others comfortable. In doing so, he is going out of his way to make himself seem friendly and approachable.
Brent Staples uses his essay “Black Men and Public Space to describe his everyday life being a black man in public. He has to go out of his way, in the litteral sense to make himself “less threatening” to others. He walks away from people who are afraid of him and he whistles classical tunes. He has to present himself as ‘not a mugger” to make others feel safe. Society has taught people that blackmen are a threat to society. This shouldn’t be the case at all. He shouldn’t have to present himself as “less threatening” he should just already “no threat at all”. Something needs to change in the world that will stop allowing black men to be targeted and seen as a threat to society.
