Common Sense Essay

    Thomas Paine’s Common Sense was a pamphlet that was written in order to invoke change and spark thoughts among the people of the original thirteen colonies. In the writing, Thomas Paine cited reasons as to why the colonies should separate from Great Britain, and thus declare independence. Additionally, he provided arguments against those who believed that a war of independence was a mistake. Thomas Paine believed that the colonies should break away from Great Britain because the English government had too many flaws. Also, he stated that they should secede because Britain did not offer any Naval assets. Additionally, religious freedom is another reason why Paine believed that the colonies should break away and declare independence. Thomas Paine also refuted the a counter argument by saying that the argument for peace is not viable. 
    One of Thomas Paine’s most prominent reasons that he cited for why the colonies should break away from the British government is that he believed that the English government had too many flaws. Paine did not agree with the kingship that ruled English government, as he believed that the crown played too much of a role in government. Paine believed that the kings were detrimental to mankind, he further stated that “ Government by kings was first introduced into the world by the Heathens, from whom the children of Israel copied the custom ”. Here, Paine asserted that the implementation of kings in society was a huge mistake. He even went on to prove that Biblically, it was not correct and was sinful as the Bible did not approve of kings. Paine also cited his disagreement with hereditary succession as another way that the British government was flawed. He stated that “ For all men being originally equals, no one by birth could have a right to set up his own family in perpetual preference to all others…”. In stating that, Paine showed that he believed that since everyone is considered equal, then no one should be allowed to designate themselves as higher than another. He further conveyed his point by saying that when a king is appointed and hereditary succession follows, that no one can be sure that the descendants of the king will be fit to rule. That is, the descendants of the leader may not even be deserving or able to handle the responsibilities that have fallen upon them. 
    Another reason why Paine believed that the colonies should break away from Britain was that the British Navy was not an asset to the colonies. Therefore, continuing to be a part of Great Britain did not have any positive effects on the colonies if they would also have to take on England’s debt in return for their naval services. Paine pointed out that for a nation that would start out with no debt, the money that it would take to build its Navy would not be insurmountable. He further went on to explain that not only would the colonies be able to afford the funds that it would take, they already sustained many of the resources that they would need. He explains this point by saying that “Tar, timber, iron, and cordage are her natural produce”. Paine further stated that “ A navy three or four thousand miles off can be of little use, and on sudden emergencies, none at all”. In this, he showed that it would be pointless to be under the British Navy if they would not be of assistance in times when they were needed.
 Additionally, Thomas Paine pointed out  religious freedom as another reason for the colonies to declare independence as one of his last arguments. Paine pointed out that it was the duty of the officials involved in government to protect the religious people of their society. Paine was saying that if the colonies broke away from Britain, then they could have religious freedoms and not have to follow the rules set by Britain concerning religion. He further went on to state that “ there should be diversity of religious opinions among us: it affords a larger field for our Christian kindness.” In this statement, Paine was saying that diversity within Christianity would a positive thing for the colonies to implement, something that British rule would not allow for. 
    In his pamphlet Common Sense, Thomas Paine also argued against the opinions of those who believed that breaking away from Britain was not the right choice. One of the main arguments that he cited was that people believed that the colonies had prospered under Great Britain’s rule, and that it was not independence that was needed but peace. Paine then went on to counter that argument. He stated that since so much damage had already been to the colonies, there was really no going back to peace and normal circumstances with Great Britain. 
 Paine went on to pose a series of question to readers who believed that peace was the answer. He started with questioning how the people in the colonies would even be able to think about reconciliation with Great Britain, a place that had brought nothing to the colonies but pain and hardships to the people. He questioned, “Hath your house been burnt? Hath your property been destroyed before your face ?” In doing this, he showed that there had been irreversible actions taken upon the people of the colonies that peace would not make up for. 
    Thomas Paine brought up many arguments in Common Sense to show the people in the colonies why they should break away from Great Britain. He also cited the arguments of those who disagreed with him, and at many points proved them wrong by pointing out their flaws. By writing his pamphlet the way he did, many people began to think in a different sense and were motivated by the strong arguments for independence.