
Subject: StrengthsFinder and Career Leader analysis
It has come to my attention that these two tests to help determine my strengths and possible career choices has served a purpose. These two assessments have opened doors to help the class determine what our strengths lie and how they can help determine future career choices.
On August 16th and 21st two assessments were completed by myself named Strengths finder and Career Finder. The results are based on my top 5 strengths: Deliberative, Discipline, Analytical, Responsibility, and Arranger. On August 29, 2017, the English class was asked to answer the following questions that helped us analyze the alignments and similarities between our strengths and the results of the Career finder assessment.
1) Describe how your StrengthsFinder top five themes align with your Career Leader assessment.
1 A) What similarities do you see regarding your top Career Leader interests, motivators and skills when compared with your StrengthsFinder results?
The results from my assessments almost align with my career matches and interests. Financial investing and accounting have strong correlations with quantitative analysis. I am a very calculated person so the result of Quantitative Analysis makes sense.
One of my strengths is analytical, this result makes sense because in Accounting I like to analyze financial statements and make decisions based on the data that are best fit for the company. I love to watch the stock market for market changes and make decisions to invest based on that data. I own stock and 401k accounts, so I must analyze the market carefully.
Most of my motivators according to the Career leader assessment match up with my personal self, such as: security, financial gain, and positioning. I do care about the security of my stocks and their financial gain.
1 B) What correlations are there, if any, between your top five themes and the Career Leader Career Match results?
Some of the correlations include that career report stated that the following jobs would be a great match for me: Finance in corporate settings, Accounting, and project management. The results match some of my strengths such as responsibility, displace, and arranger. I love to analyze data and hear different opinions on the matter and how they contribute to the overall project. 
I take charge of group projects because it allows me to arrange people by their strengths. I like to take the responsibility because if I feel if I do not, then the project will not get done in a timely manner; the management result from my test aligns with that.
1 C) Do the results seem to diverge or contradict one another in any significant ways? What do you think that this reveal?
The results do seem to break away with one of my strengths of deliberative because the stock market is not always able to be corrected by outside sources. That scares me because I cannot personally minimize the risk and control it. I think this reveals that not all the strengths and carriers are going to line up. Ultimately, we decide our future and what makes us happy.
2) What is your overall impression of these two assessments? How do you view the results as helpful to you in making academic and career decisions?
These assessments were honestly boring at first. I was just doing them for a grade. After writing about it and discussing it with others, I realize now that this is a great tool to see where my weakest and best matches lie.
It makes sense because the results are what we should capitalize on to make ourselves look better over the competition. However, there is something I must say negative about the career finder assessment. The questions are too repetitive and repeat themselves a lot. After writing about the results it helped could me with my future decisions.
