Purple Hibiscus 
	
		Family Struggles 
Throughout human history, family is always common. The father sometimes is head of the family. While almost any man can father a child, cultural, spiritual, financial and emotional expectations seem to force many “fathers” onto a path that they are not prepared to navigate. Within this path, these fathers also find themselves torn between the role of Father and Daddy. In “The Purple Hibiscus”, Eugene finds himself on this path. There are three main issues that seem to cause. Eugene has a complex relationship with his family because he has extreme opinions on faith, confusing views on love, and his overall public image. 
Eugene as extreme opinions on faith.  Eugene expresses his views on the family by going strictly by the book. This caused much conflict throughout the family by him beating and harming his wife and his children. One of the first time when he expressed his strong views towards his religion was when Kambili ate less than an hour before mass so that she would be able to take her cramp medicine. Her mother approved of this having her brother keep watch yet Eugene still found out and proceeded to beat them with a belt.(Ngozi 100) His explanation was asking the family why do they continue to walk into sin. He sees that beating his family is more leading to the most holly root, yet it is leading the children down a dark path. Due to these content beatings due reglion it causes the Kambili to have troubles expressing her emotions(Helpguide.org para6) and making friends at school. 
The second reason for Eugene’s complex relationship with his family is because of his views on love. Despite him constantly beating his wife and children he expresses to them that he loves them so much. After he beat Jaja and broke his finger, he cried afterward and took him to the hospital.(Ngozi pg145) Despite this consent abuse that he gives to his children and wife he tells them it is out of love. He puts these delusions into the families mind to the degree when Aunt Ifeoma suggest for mama to leave she refused saying that he is a good man.(50). Despite all these things Eugene does he still justifies it with love. 
Finally despite him continually hurting his family he cares more deeply about his public image. For one the family is scared into looking like the perfect family. At the Christmas party when having guest over at the house, the family only speak when spoke too and would look at Eugene before they speak.(Ngozi 97) For the family to look great, they must be quiet and composed. In turn, this caused Kambili to have problems with social skills and have problems making friends at school or even speaking up for her self(44). This is a side effect of abuse “Excessively withdrawn, fearful, or anxious about doing something wrong.”(helpguide para 10). She describes this feeling every time she tries to speak to other people like her classmates. Eugene feels that he expresses and show how much he loves his family, this makes the family justify his abuse and protect him to the degree of speaking well of him, feeling pride, and keeping quiet about. 
Engage decides not necessarily to act like an average caring father. He chose to develop a complex relationship with his own family by controlling their personal everyday life. Making them look like perfect dolls. Pushing his views on his faith forceful on them by beating them and ;in his eyes, making them pure. Brainwashing them into thinking that this is out of love having Kambili crave for his approval. Finally by making sure his public image is the best that it could be useful the own families social skills. Instead of most of the family loving him unconditionally it caused them to fear him.


Worked Sited 
Child Abuse and Neglect https://helpguide.org/articles/abuse/child-abuse-and-neglect.htm Nov. 5, 2017 
Adiche, Chimamanda Ngozi The Purple Hibiscus Algonquin Books; Reprint edition, April 17,2012
