
A Renowned Author
 	All Individuals go through hardships at one point or another in life, with no idea what’s going to happen next. From those hardships come valuable life lessons. One author whose had some of these moments, and has many life lessons to offer would be Maya Angelou who wrote Letter to My Daughter, published September 23, 2008. By the time it was published she had already published two other books, multiple volumes of poetry, and six autobiographies. In an excerpt from her book she talks about growing up, philanthropy, revelations, and giving birth. Of course, having such success as a writer takes skills. Angelou wants to share events and lessons she’s found useful, but she doesn’t say how she used them because she wants her readers to use them where they seem fit. She knows hoe creative and smart her readers are to use her information in their own ways. Obviously, Angelou is an amazing author but there are reasons why her work is so famous. Maya Angelou uses some rhetorical strategies to get these lessons across such as consideration of audience, pathos, and word choice. She uses these strategies to relate to her readers and really grasp their attention. 
	Angelou’s work was for a certain audience Her audience is mostly targeted towards any women around the world interested in her work. The women she appeals to form her book will likely continue to read her work and stand behind her in whatever else she might do. She’s not only writing her female audience, I’m sure Angelou can reach others to the same level. She knows no one is the same, and everyone is different and she says how her book is for everyone in her audience.  Ironically, she didn’t have a daughter at all only one son. Angelou has such a good connection with her audiences that she calls them all her daughters. Angelou managed to form a connection to all her audience through her writing. In a video titled “Maya Angelou Introduces Letter to My Daughter” by Penguin Random House she even describes who her audience is and the characteristics they may all have. She says she has thousands of daughters who are black, White, Jewish, Muslim, Asian, Spanish speaking, native American and anyone else it applies to. She continues to say, you are fat, thin, pretty, plain, gay, straight, educated and how she is speaking to all of them. (Angelou).  Angelou doesn’t care about these characteristics. Angelou’s audience is to all women of all races, backgrounds, and all body types.
 In an article titled “Audience Addressed” by Lisa Ede and Andrea Lunsford goes into detail about how important it is to write with the audience in mind. They explain how the audience is everything but so are the words you write. They say to keep the audience’s attitudes, believes, and expectations in mind while writing. They also claim you must keep all that in mind without losing what you must say in the middle of it. “…the creativity of the writer with the different, but equally important, creativity of the reader” (Ede & Lunsford 93). This is a key strategy that Maya Angelou accomplishes in Letter to My Daughter. Angelou says everything she wants to say and still relates to the reader which makes her audience choice a great rhetorical strategy in her writing. 
This is a great skill to master and Maya Angelou has mastered it. Her consideration of her audience is one of the stronger strategies she uses. As a reader, I felt like she took me in to consideration. What I loved most was in a video of herself by Penguin Random House she dedicated this book to al her daughters of every background. It’s one thing to write it but it’s another to hear her say it herself. Coming directly from her makes her message so much more valuable to her audience. She’s making it completely for the people who make her work so successful. At the end of the video is says “Here is my offering to you”. Angelou is so genuine in saying its truly for everyone and the lessons she writes is full intended to help each one of them. As a woman, she made me feel as if I’m accepted in her own little world of writing. Her attention to audience is a small detail she pays attention to and it makes a huge difference. She also uses this form of rhetorically to also connect to other audience’s emotions. 
In an article titled “Rhetorical Analysis” by the University Writing Center breakdown the type of appeals authors uses in their papers to capture the audience.  The articles first breakdown is of pathos. Pathos is the emotional appeal that makes the reader want to accept and approve of the ideas being discussed. Authors will use this to tap into your sympathy, and compassion, anger, and disappoint to name a few. Through their word you feel the emotion thy are trying to convey. An example they gave in the article was the commercials about donating to the children in a third world country to make any viewer feel guilty and donate to the cause. Pathos is a common and easy way to relate to your readers and allow them to relate to what the author is saying. They use this to make a personal connection to the reader and gain their trust.  (1).
Maya Angelou uses pathos in her excerpt multiple times. She uses pathos to form a personal relationship with all those her read any of her work. Angelou brings up how in Stamps Arkansas, African Americans adults were considered less academically intelligent, and how poor white children could address any older African American person by whatever they choose.  Maya Angelou talks about a sensitive subject but is still one of the most common things we still see today. She talks about being discriminated against based on the color of their skin and seen inferior to other individuals. She also says she doesn’t feel that she is inferior to anyone, except her brother and it shows even when odds are stacked against her she doesn’t doubt herself. Right after this she brings up a great novel by Thomas Wolfe titled You Can’t Go Home Again. Angelou said she enjoyed the book but didn’t agree with the title completely because she has her own beliefs on what home really is. Despite Wolfes title she believes home is wherever you are. Home is within yourself without anyone like parents or neighbors. We are basically our own home. Since we can’t control the environment around us we must make our own place and where only we can go to and no one else can enter. (Angelou para 4-8)
	This relates to pathos because she’s creating that bond with people in her audience who deal with discrimination every day like she did growing up. It’s a common yet frowned upon everyday occurrence that many individuals around the world. She’s also letting us into her everyday life as an African American woman. She brings this up to give us some background information and relate to any audience members who have ever been discriminated against.  Maya Angelou being African American herself can relate to any of her audience who are of the same ethnicity, or anyone who deals with it daily. This is an important subject that will resonate with any of her readers.  Also, I’m positive her audience can relate to having a home feeling within themselves. A place for their thoughts, beliefs and dreams. I share a similar view on home. Home is a place you live literally, but home goes beyond walls she made the topic to relate well to her audience’s beliefs. 
	In an Article titled “Word Choice “by Susanne Robins she talks about how important word choice can be. Robins says that there are so many ways to make a point, describe an event, or express an opinion. Robins continued to say, depending on what word you use you can affect how any of the readers understand your meanings, or how they feel about you understanding your own position. She gives advice on how not to do that. She said to avoid this you must be straight forward, and try to be friendly, while being professional. She claims using strong and impactful word is a great way to get your message across.  She says to be direct but don’t leave out important details in doing so. This was something Maya Angelou used to her advantage.
 Maya Angelou uses word choice when she talks about important subjects in her excerpt. When she talks about the racism that happened in her home town she uses important strong words. Angelou says, “My real growing up world in Stamps, was a continual struggle against a condition of surrender” (para 4). Over all, this quote is so powerful. The way she words this phase is all with strong and impactful words to show the meaning behind the phrase. Using words like she did makes you feel the weight behind them. Especially the word surrender. The word surrender was an excellent choice. She could have used any other word but surrender shows the severity of the problem.  She continues with “Then submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people…” (Angelou para 4). She uses a strong word like submission, and inferior to make this sentence stand out. Submission is to give into power, and the way she uses it gives off this kind of attitude that makes it an even better word choice example. She also uses the word inferior this is also impactful. If she would’ve replaced it with “less than” instead of inferior, you still get the point but you don’t get its seriousness of the subject.  For this Maya Angelou chooses impactful word to capture the seriousness of the topic, and of the situation. She doesn’t only use these words while discussing racism but she also used them when discussing her grandmother Annie Henderson. “She was the picture of dignity.” (Angelou para 17). Angelou uses a metaphor to express the way she views her grandmother. The word dignity is a powerful word to describe her grandmother’s virtue. Comparing her grandmother to dignity shows how highly she thought of her, and how much respect she had for her. She used her strong word choice for both serious subjects and in a positive way when describing her grandmother.  Throughout her book she uses these words for all topics of value. If she wouldn’t have used such strong word choice her message wouldn’t be conveyed as well as it was in Letter to My Daughter. Since she used these words her message comes across as meaningful as she wanted it to.
Angelou uses many rhetorical strategies in her writing those were just a few she used to her advantage. As you can see she uses her consideration to audience, pathos and word choice to connect to all who read her work. Her consideration to audience was an excellent choice because of how successful her work is. She also uses pathos in her writing to connect with her audience on an emotional level and gain their trust. Lastly, she uses word choice to convey all the important messages and life lessons to her readers. After reading the excerpt readers are left with a cliff hanger but because Letter to My Daughter is a book, you’ll be able to find out the rest of her life lessons she should offer. After reading an excerpt of the book, and rhetorically analyzing it, I want to read more and learn the rest of her life stories and learn from them as she did herself. Over all, the little excerpt we read made me want to pick up her book and finish it to find out what else Angelou has to say. It was a great read, and rhetorically successful due to her many strategies, and her way of writing.  


Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter. Signature
http://www.signaturereads.com/2012/01/excerptlettertomydaughterbymayaangelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost
Ede, Lisa. Lunsford, Andrea. “Audience Addressed”. More Rhetoric March 16, 2016 http://mererhetoric.libsyn.com/audience-invoked-audience-addressed-new-and-improved
“Rhetorical Analysis” The University Writing Center http://writingcenter.tamu.edu/Students/Writing-Speaking-Guides/Alphabetical-List-of-Guides/Academic-Writing/Analysis/Rhetorical-Analysis
Robins, Suzanne. “Word choice”. Coursera. https://www.coursera.org/learn/business-writing/lecture/6XfOyP/1-3-word-choice
