
Silence in Purple Hibiscus
The moments where there is a lack of dialogue, where there is silence, is a substantial theme that emerges from Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel “Purple Hibiscus.” Kimbali, a young girl who has often seen her father beat her mother and use his power to always control the lives of his family, is portrayed as obedient and quiet. Silence is not only seen to be used by Kimbali, but also by other characters in different instances. Through characters’ experiences in the novel, Adichie makes silence represent a tool of coercion, a tool of communication, and a tool of defiance. 
Silence was a tool of coercion because Papa, Kimbali’s father, compelled his authority in a way that brought upon an obedient silence from his family. This was seen when Jaja, Kimbali’s brother, and Kimbali gave a silent response to Ade Choker when he visited their house with his family. Adichie wrote, “Jaja and I smiled and said nothing,” which was followed by Papa saying that his children are not the loud children that most people are seen raising (57-58). The silence suggests that Jaja and Kimbali had acted appropriately to his desires. They may done so just because it may lead to punishment if they disobey or misbehave. This is reasonable because a known factor of abuse is going along with what the abuser says (Smith and Segal). Also, their silent obedience suggests that a violent punishment may ensue because a known indicator for forthcoming violence or abuse is the expectation to follow orders (Stanford Children’s Health). Ultimately, silence has the potential to point to the unspoken signs of abuse or violence. The nonexistence of Jaja and Kimbali’s expressed opinions holds a concealed significance.
A tool of communication is what silence became for Jaja and Kimbali due to Papa’s imposing authority. One instance is when Jaja came into Kimbali’s room and Adichie wrote, “I wish we still had lunch together, Jaja said with his eyes” (22). Another example of Jaja and Kimbali using silence to communicate was indicated by Adichie writing, “I turned to Jaja… speaking with my eyes” (289). These instances expressed how Jaja and Kimbali “spoke” to each other through silence. The mere existence of communication during silence was supported by Michael W. Shelton of the Department of Communication and Karen Shelton, Assistant Director of Planning, who are authors of a research paper on “Silence Please- Silence as a Component of Interpersonal Communication” The paper describes silence, the nothingness, as a linking element in relations that does indeed convey something, and says that saying nothing is saying something. Beneath the looks that Jaja and Kimbali give each other, in their silence, something is being said. In the nothingness, the passing of a message occurs.
Silence is used as a tool of defiance through which Jaja utilizes to oppose Papa’s authority. One instance would be when he did not say anything to compliment Papa’s new product. Adichie wrote, “Say something, please… He was supposed to say something now, to contribute, to compliment” (13). When defying Papa through silence, Jaja is opposing his authority specifically. It is indeed an imposing and defensive act because silence is “theorized as a form of quiet… psychological violence [that] inflicts harm” (Pillay). The research paper “Silence Please- Silence as a Component of Interpersonal Communication” states that silence can “encompass both desirable and undesirable ends” and that its applications “can stretch across a broad spectrum of interpersonal interaction” (Shelton and Shelton). Since silence has been mentioned to be able to contain “undesirable ends,” the likelihood that Jaja is using silence to oppose Papa, should not be disregarded. To consider the message of defiance that was being conveyed through silence in Jaja’s case as within the category of “undesirable ends” is a sensible assumption.
Using silence as a tool of defiance by Jaja, evoking silence from Kimbali and others by Papa’s coercion, and using silence to communicate between Jaja and Kimbali were all observed experiences in the novel that Adichie particularly used to convey the different meanings of and thus the overall theme of silence. These experiences not only effectively convey that theme but expand upon it by including the “desirable and undesirable ends” of silence, the “something” in nothing or the linking element aspect of silence, and a certain concealed significance upon signs of abuse. By this specific expansion upon the tools of silence, Adichie shows the audience an unspoken but implied statement. She used silence to convey that Papa is controlling and abusive, so much so that he evoked his family members into silence, and Adichie took that silence and utilized it for different purposes. Silence may symbolize varying things due to different situations or experiences, but the important take away of silence is the deeper meaning behind it. Silence had to be caused by something and by Adichie relating it to Papa, she speaks some unspoken things about and ultimately suggests the issue of domestic violence and abuse.








MLA Works Cited/Bibliography Page:
  Pillay, R., Suntosh. “Silence is violence: (critical) psychology in an era of Rhodes Must Fall and Fees Must Fall” 29 April 2016, http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0081246316636766. 
Shelton, Karen and Shelton, W., Michael. “Silence Please- Silence as a Component of Interpersonal Communication.” April 1992, http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED360673.pdf 
Smith, Melinda, and Jeanne Segal. “Domestic Violence and Abuse.” Domestic Violence and Abuse: Recognizing the Signs of an Abusive Relationship and Getting Help, Oct. 2017, www.helpguide.org/articles/abuse/domestic-violence-and-abuse.htm. 
Stanford Children's Health. “Default - Stanford Children's Health.” Stanford Children's Health - Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford, www.stanfordchildrens.org/en/topic/default?id=recognizing-domestic-violence-1-2579.
