Hands-on Based Courses for Engineering Majors
The cost of attending college is a lot of money, and students are investing too much time on courses that have nothing to do with their major. What students need are courses that are more tailored to the subject that engineering majors require which will help them get a job in the workforce rather than having to do unnecessary work because being an engineer has its own advantage by having the freedom of expressing one’s ideas and creativity on the projects being worked on. Engineering majors needs courses that are more hand-based type of classes rather than having them sit in other classes that contain long boring lectures which are unnecessary for their degree. The Article “The Role of Work Placement in Engineering Students' Academic Performance” by Blicblau, Nelson, and Dini states that students need more industry work base classes for they can gain working experience because “work experience has also been shown to result in increased engineering generic skills and employability”. (Blicblau, Nelson, Dini, 31). There are many factors that hands-on engineering-based classes can be beneficial to the student. The author’s Otero, Rodriguez, and Royo of the article “Teaching Engineering with Autonomous Learning Activities” explain that project-based courses will help address real problems or products that motivate the students. Each project base shows how the same activity can be applied in subjects of different years and how the implementation level changes, depending on the course in which it is conducted. The activities being proposed have been introduced in engineering courses, but they can also be applied in any other knowledge field. (Otero, Rodriguez, and Royo). By having courses that are more specific to their major will eventually help many big companies hire them due to all the skills and knowledge they will obtain by doing work that relates to their major. Although many educators believe that the best way to teach students is through courses one may not need by having them sit through long lectures and attend unnecessary classes, colleges are not considering how they fail to create courses that embrace the student's educational needs in the engineering field that will benefit them in the workforce.
The problem in our education system that needs to be addressed is where the courses students take in college are irrelevant to their major. All the unnecessary work these courses offer does not relate to the engineering field the students are trying to get a degree on where colleges are wasting a lot of money to provide them with classes that are not necessary to them. Even though these courses are considered to help the students educational needs in the engineering major, it is not doing them a favor due to many jobs requires them to already have experience in the respective major of study. Without experience the students will less likely be employed, so the solution to address this is by tailoring more hands-on based courses that will help the student gain an advantage to better prepare them for their future jobs. However, this is not an easy solution when taking into consideration where all the funds go toward courses that the student do not need, and colleges would not want to waste even more money on creating hands-on specific type of engineering courses. The courses colleges provide the students do not benefit them because some of these courses are classes they have already taken in High School.
Work-based courses can result to improve the performance of the student in their academics and have an increase in the engineering skills that will be required for employability.  In the article “The Role of Work Placement in Engineering Students' Academic Performance” written by the authors Aaron Simon Blicblau, Tracey Louise Nelson, and Kurosh Dini informs us Industry-based work contains an educational and academic emphasis while at the same time exposing the students to experience workplace environments and personal interactions as part of their learning experience. They propose this type of industrial learning for students can relate their work experience to their academic work, and so improve their academic grades as well as enhancing their employment prospects. (Blicblau, Nelson, and Dini).  By acknowledging work-based courses as classes for the student’s educational needs in engineering it will help promote the relevance of the learning experience they got exposed from the industries, and it better help the student be prepared for their future jobs by utilizing the techniques they learned from the industry based courses.
There are many other ways of implementing courses that will benefit the student in the major they are trying to obtain that will require them to be focused more on engineering work rather than useless work. The article “Teaching Engineering with Autonomous Learning Activities” by authors Beatriz Otero, Eva Rodríguez, Pablo Royo argue the reasoning of how autonomous learning can provide a healthy environment of learning to the student with various types of activities for their major. One of the activities that best identifies this type of autonomous learning is project-based learning where Otero, Rodriguez, and Royo go on to explain how the Project Base Learning methodology enables students to work cooperatively, improving collaboration, management, decision making and communications skills which all are required to the workforce profession. (Otero, Rodriguez, and Royo). Therefore, by having more hands-on activities it will help them be more skillful in their respective engineering major, and by working as a group it will benefit them get a better understanding on how to prepare for their career in engineering.
Colleges should start funding these types of courses that relate to their major because it will require them to do more hands-on base work. The initiative of implementing more workshop type of courses that are tailored to their needs in the major they are trying to get a degree in will help them further develop the skills they require in the many different types of jobs in the engineering field because engineers require a high level of training and intelligence to be masters at their job. By implementing hands-on type of courses such as industry work classes and project-based classes it will help them be engaged in the field they are studying as engineer majors. They will become more focus on the career path they will be willing to take as engineers. 
In Norway, there are many and different types of engineering programs that mainly focus on the framework and coursework of what an engineer must learn to accomplish their objective. According to the article “A New Introductory Course in the Engineering Education at the University of Tromsø” written by Gjengedal Arne, and Schive Tor explores the objective of the curriculum in engineering is to ascertain that the education is professionally oriented, integrated, research-based and holds a high academic standard where the courses should focus on the commonalities of the engineering profession rather than discipline-oriented topics. The engineering work, and the working condition in the courses of Norway present prospects that are required in the local industry for their engineering programs. (Arne, Tor). In this way, their students will be better prepared for the jobs they will obtain because the work presented in the courses will be closely relevant to what the type of work the jobs will offer them. 
Engineering is one of the many majors that the student must be very patient to accomplish a degree on because this one of the hardest majors to obtain their degree Especially, with all the undesirable work they get from courses many engineers do not need. A solution to facilitate, and help many engineering students to be patient and accomplish their goal is by having more courses that relate to their major by establishing more hands-on based courses such as industrial work courses and project-based courses. This will benefit them because they will no longer stress out with the work many unnecessary courses give out to them, and instead, they will be more engaged with the work that is provided by their specified major course. By implementing these type of project base and industrial base courses they will be more motivated to take these types of classes which will help them be better prepared for the profession they are planning to major in.  









Work Cited
Arne, Gjengedal and Schive Tor. "A New Introductory Course in the Engineering 
Education at the University of Tromsø." Universal Journal of Educational Research, vol. 4, no. 6, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 1464-1470. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1103249&site=ehost-live.

Blicblau, Aaron Simon, et al. "The Role of Work Placement in Engineering Students' 
Academic Performance." Asia-Pacific Journal of Cooperative Education, vol. 17, no.1,01Jan.2016,pp.3143.EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1114038&ite=ehost-live.

Otero, Beatriz, et al. "Teaching Engineering with Autonomous Learning Activities." 
Journal of Technology and Science Education, vol. 5, no. 3, 01 Jan. 2015, pp. 194 213.EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1135401&site=ehost-live.
