Millennials Don’t Have Jobs—Here’s Why

Millennials. They’re taking selfies. They’re tweeting. They’re getting degrees in Women’s Studies. What are they not doing? Getting employed. The unemployment rate among millennials is 12.8%. You want to know what the national average is? 4.9%. People have said that we can’t really blame Millennials for their high rate of unemployment. After all, they’re busy with college, and those evil old people refuse to retire, right? That would be a convenient answer, but nope. The real answer is a little different.
	The real problem is that millennials are narcissists. A study at Case Western University proves that. “Millennials are more narcissistic than in past generations,” says Joshua Grubbs, the doctoral candidate who did the study. Millennials even agree with what he said, since “the people that found the label acceptable were people who are actually narcissistic,” and millennials rate themselves as being more narcissistic than any other generation. If only real narcissists think of themselves as narcissists, and every millennial thinks they are one, then clearly, we are dealing with an epidemic. 
	What does an epidemic of narcissism mean? People who feel entitled to what they want without having to work for it. That’s why we’re seeing these high rates of unemployment. It’s not because they’re in college, because most millennials have already graduated—the generation started in 1981, so some of these people are pushing 40! It’s not because the old people refuse to retire, because people are retiring earlier now than in 1950, according to the BBC. It’s just because millennials expect to have everything work out for them without them having to do anything. 
	Narcissism isn’t the only issue here. Another problem is that millennials would rather live with their parents than with a spouse. A study at Pew Research Center found that 32.1% of 18-34 year olds lived at home as of 2014. Only 31.6% lived with a spouse, and the rest were either single or had other living arrangements. Now, more 18-34 year olds were living at home back in 1940, but in that generation, a much larger percentage of them were married. There’s a lot less incentive to go out and get a job if you don’t have a family to support. Sure, some parents are willing to make their adult children get jobs, but not all of them.
	They don’t really want to get married, either. Why get married when you have a Tinder account? Around 60-80% of college students will “hook up” with someone while they’re in college, meaning casual sex. This was obviously not always the case, but in recent years, the numbers of younger people willing to hook up with someone have increased steadily. Although we can blame the “free love” of the 1960s for kick-starting this, it didn’t really become an accepted norm until the late ‘90s. All of a sudden, it was just fine to hook up with someone you never met before. It was less fine to get married, because that’s for losers! People who don’t want a committed relationship because they don’t want to be uncool clearly feel the same way about holding down a job.
	We can’t totally blame the millennial generation for the way things are going for them. They were raised by people who fussed over their self-esteem and handed out stickers. Hollywood has given them wildly unrealistic views of the world, namely that they can party all the time and that sex doesn’t mean anything. And they have old people poking and prodding them, calling them names.
	Unfortunately, until someone invents a time-machine, we can’t go back and stop the teachers of millennials from doling out participation trophies every time the little rug-monkeys blow their noses. Even more unfortunately, we can’t do much of anything in the present, either. How do you convince a bunch of narcissistic socialists who live with their parents that they need to go out and work for a living? That almost sounds more difficult than the time machine thing.
	Some millennials actually do work hard, and they deserve an apology from the rest of their generation for making them look so bad. Here’s an apology on their behalf: Sorry, millennials who are actually normal human beings. You’re part of the reason our country hasn’t collapsed into violent, post-apocalyptic anarchy yet. Thank you.
	Maybe we should also thank the lazy, narcissistic millennials for making everyone else look industrious and hard-working. Compared to people like that, anyone who manages not to be a lazy narcissist looks like the greatest person ever. But still, let’s hope that these trends don’t continue, or who knows what will happen?
Reflection
	The target audience of my fake news article was conservative Baby Boomers. This group of people seem to believe that my generation is entitled and lazy, and that unemployed people are unemployed for similar reasons. My story was designed to convince them through statistics (some of which were genuine) and repetition of a lot of the same mockery of millennials that I’ve noticed before. 
	Through this article, I was attempting to both entertain my target audience and make them angry and scared. I tried to do this by saying a lot of what people are already thinking about millennials, and using somewhat satirical language. The end result is hopefully an article that plays on some of the fears my audience has about how much the younger generation might ruin the world, while also making them laugh. 
	I designed this article to be posted on Townhall, a conservative news website that is often geared towards older adults. One thing they tend to do is combine facts with ad hominem attacks and humor. I did this by including statistics—some real, some distorted or made up—but also making sure to thoroughly mock millennials, and accuse them of thinking things they don’t think in order to make them look bad. I think my article is likely to be shared on Facebook because of its clickbait-style headline and the amusing image attached to it.
