Counselors in Need of Counseling 
	There has always been an obvious distinct separation between those who counsel and those being counseled. A therapist is a person qualified in helping patients in need of guidance in any personal, social, or any psychological problems they may be having. Patients of course are in need of this guidance. This allows patients to process any issues they have and learn how to act on them in a healthy way. If counselor’s help patients with their problems who is supposed to help counselors deal with their own problems? If counselors are having their own personal problems how are they supposed deal with them and help others with their problems? This is a topic that needs to be acknowledged for the huge problem it is. therapist deal with multiple patients, hear multiple stories throughout their careers, and deal with their own personal issues and for this reason, counselor’s need their own type of counseling to be at the best of their ability to ensure their patients get the help they need, and deserve. A counselor’s entire job is helping others, but they should have their own type of counseling to not only keep helping other patients, but also for their own health, and well-being
Although the specific settings are different considering their practice, therapist frequently deal with children, teens, adults, or families that have multiple issues, such as mental health disorders, addiction, disability, school problems, career counseling needs, and trauma. Therapists have to be able to recognize these issues in order to help their clients with appropriate counseling, or support.  In an article titled Therapist have therapy too By Drew Coster he talks about the multiple reasons why therapist or similar occupations would need help themselves. The author talks about the countless times his patients have told him how much they admire him for never getting over whelmed by common issues, or for being so calm and put together. He claims although it’s flattering it’s not always true.  He admits to having psychotherapy himself and how life changing it was for him.  He went to therapy for a year and a half and said it defined the man he is today.  He even said if a therapist hasn’t been through therapy or some sort of counseling he personally wouldn’t want them to be his therapist. (Coster) Therapy can only work in favor for those involved whether it’s a patient seeking help, or a therapist themselves seeking help. Therapist are only human and can be affected by their jobs in multiple ways just like anyone else would. 
One of the many reasons why a therapist should have counseling is because they can’t save everybody from their problems there has been multiple therapist affected by patients commit suicide. Suicide can’t affect anyone negatively, but more so, the therapist can feel tremendous amounts of guilt like they could’ve done, more or prevented it. In an Article called Patient Suicide Brings Therapist Lasting Pain by Erica Goode says Therapist know ahead of time that some patients who need their help are sometimes at risk for suicide. The authors list some of the patient’s problems such as depression, schizophrenia and other serious mental disorders, and even compared them to being as deadly as a cancerous tumor. She explains how rare suicide is and how intimate a relationship is between a therapist and a patient that most professionals are caught off guard, and less prepared to deal with a patient's death. She explains the results of a report that the suicide of a patient can have a long-lasting emotional impact on the therapist.
The report that was based off interviews with psychiatrists, psychologists, therapist and social workers found out that after a suicide, many therapists had feelings of guilt, anger, grief or betrayal around with them for years. She goes on by talking about how some therapist had nightmares, extreme anxiety or other symptoms of stress after the death. Goode said common reactions to suicide were self-blame, potentially being blamed by others, and not wanting to take other suicide risk patients. (Goode) Suicide can have ever lasting effect on everyone especially a therapist. Therapist and patients can have a close bond throughout year of treatment ad a suicide can affect the family and the therapist for years. Considering the lasting effects, a suicide can have on a therapist this is one of the many reasons therapist need to seek help for themselves to ensure their out mental health.
Therapist are only human. Just because they help others through their problems doesn’t mean they see the signs in Their own lives. In an article titled Counselors need counseling by Sarah Barba she talks about how she’s sat across from friends, teenagers, and parents who are in pain, and knows their pain.  She admits she spent 10+ years battling the same thoughts and urges her patients have had. She says therapists aren’t immune from depression, anxiety, or addictions. She goes on to say that therapist are people who have a great influence on their own clients. The author says she has to be in control of her own emotional pain that she carries into each therapy session. She talks about being young and refusing therapy. She battled her own anxiety and she was so worried about what people would say she didn’t allow herself to receive help. Barba says now as an adult she now knows how therapy or counseling can really help people through the darkest times. She says she now can take steps each day to be a healthier person, and knows people around her who will help her face the hard parts of life that she used to want to avoid. This is why counselors need counseling too. (Barba) Therapist, counselors, psychiatrist, and so many more need help themselves. They are taught to listen to everyone else’s problems, but they go through the same pain, and problems some clients go through. Therapy can help anyone in need of it. Barba learned how to asses her own problems and now know how to deal with them about dealing with her own problems and attending therapy herself. Therapy can be beneficial for everyone and should be considered by all in need. 
	All in all, therapist do a lot to keep their patients save, and healthy so why shouldn’t we do the same for them? Therapist need the emotional support they dish out to others. Therapist have everyday problems that almost all people deal with, they have struggles, just like everybody else. Some therapist deal with more than other, especially when they lose patients. Losing patients can have a negative affect that can last for years and is one of the many reasons why therapist need therapy.   People need to realize therapist are human too Therapist need to keep their own mental health in mind to keep others save as well as themselves. 

.
Barba, Sarah“Counselors Need Counseling Too. – TWLOHA.” TWLOHA, 13 Apr. 2015, twloha.com/blog/counselors-need-counseling-too-0/
Goode, Erica. “Patient Suicide Brings Therapists Lasting Pain.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 15 Jan. 2001, www.nytimes.com/2001/01/16/science/patient-suicide-brings-therapists-lasting-pain.html
Coster, Drew “Therapists Have Therapy Too.” World of Psychology, 4 Aug. 2015, psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2013/10/18/therapists-have-therapy-too/.
