Nature in Purple Hibiscus
	In literature, nature is often used symbolically to set the mood of a scene or is added to express the hidden meaning behind a certain situation.  In Chimamanda Adichie ‘s novel, Purple Hibiscus, a young girl and her brother are coming into maturity while facing many obstacles and abuse from their father.  Due to the story’s hostile and overall melancholy tone, it rains more often than it does not, which serves as a symbol overwhelming sadness.  This leads to the question: what role does nature play in the novel, Purple Hibiscus? Just like any other author, Chimamanda Adichie cleverly uses flowers, animals, and weather to represent a character’s growth, state of mind, and to express the severity of the mood throughout the story.  
	Adichie uses the symbol of the flower, Purple Hibiscus, as the title of her novel because it is to be compared to the main characters, Kambili and Jaja as they grow into maturity.  According to flowermeaning.com, a hibiscus is a beautiful flower that is often seen as “a symbol of beauty, personal glory, or the perfect wife, or woman” (“Hibiscus Flower Meaning”). The flowers need lots of sunshine and grow even larger during the Spring.  In fact, they grow so big that they often have to be cut down by the gardener.  This parallels the character and journey of Kambili and Jaja as they are kept from the outside world by their father.  The father, Eugene, is very adamant about being humble and keeps his children them from becoming too confident.  For example, any time he finds them doing something that he does not like such as painting, he beats them or scolds them.  This is very similar to a beautiful plant being cut down before it gets too big; just like a plant would experience the pain of being cut, Kambili also feels the pain as she was beaten so badly one night that she was admitted into the hospital.  Like a plant needs sunshine to grow, Kambili and Jaja also need more light in their lives as their father keeps them hidden from the light; in this case, the light would be their Aunty Ifeoma.  Ifeoma provides light in Kambili and Jajas lives by allowing them to be themselves and expose them to new things.  This is a far cry from their father who is controlling and narrow-minded.  The fact that hibiscus flowers grow even more in the Spring adds to the fact that Kambili and Jaja needed someone to push them forward instead of keeping them held back.  Given the fact that the flower is purple means that Kambili and Jaja will eventually reach their highest potential as purple is often associated with self-actualization and higher positions such as royalty.  
	Adichie also uses weather as a means of setting the mood throughout the story.  Universally, rain is used to express a feeling of grief and sorrow.  This is exactly the reason Adichie chose rain to be the weather when Ade Choker dies: “It rained heavily the day Ade Choker died, a strange furious rain in the middle of the parched harmattan” (Adichie 206).  It was a very upsetting time for Papa, and his entire family.  However, rain also a form of water which is also a symbolizes cleansing.  Papa says that Ade Choker’s death was God’s will.  I suppose it can also be seen as God being in the process of cleaning something up (a mess) as rain is used multiple times throughout the story.  This “something” can be their family issues, abuse, or even their lives in general.    
	One interesting symbol used in the novel was: a chicken.  A student of Aunty Ifeoma’s comes to her house to announce her engagement while holding a chicken. “She held a huge gray chicken.  It was a symbol of her announcement to Aunty Ifeoma that she was getting married, she said” (233).  In this case, a chicken symbolizes engagement, but it can also be seen as being afraid, or being a “chicken”.  Jaja suddenly offers to kill the chicken and does so without hesitation!  The act of slitting the chicken’s throat can be seen not only as a coming of age task, but a statement that he is no longer afraid, or “chicken”.  The fact that Kambili watches him kill the chicken and does not stop him from doing so, also indicates that she is no longer “chicken”.  
	Being an overall traumatic and dismal story, Adichie successfully uses the symbols of weather, plants, and animals, which in return, works very well, and effectively connects the meanings to the characters and situations themselves.  The fact that Adichie uses the symbol of a chicken is not commonly used, but in this case, it was a perfect fit for what she was trying to express in the story.                             














Works Cited

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple hibiscus. Alonquin, 2012.

“Hibiscus Flower Meaning.” Flower Meaning, www.flowermeaning.com/hibiscus-flower-meaning/.
