“Facebook is Using You” Response
Andrews bases much of her argument on stereotyping.  What is Andrews’ position (purpose for writing) and how/what examples does she give to support her position?  What is your position on the issue?  Do you believe laws are necessary or are they unwise?  Give examples to support your ideas.
     In Lori Andrews’ “Facebook is Using You,” the author expresses informs the readers of the inconvenience and invasion of the government’s use of personal information through social media, web searches, and general online activity. Andrews expresses that due to the invasion of information, some people lose opportunities- generally financially and in the workplace. When looking at the article as a whole I feel as though a law should be created, because decisions are being made based on judgement. 
     Andrews mentions a few situations that affected some people in various ways. One circumstance is when people use general social media sites such as Facebook. A simple life of a topic causes certain ads to pop up pertaining to the person’s interests. Also, Google searches  contribute to the ads someone may see as well or may make the government determine the type of person you are whether is be with health, finances, or anything personal. Your emails can be tapped into and changed will be made to your computer based on what you’ve discussed in those emails. 
     As mentioned before, I feel that there should be a law passed that makes people give the government permission to access their online information before invasion. I say that because many people have lost opportunities based on the judgement of employers or those handling credit. Andrews states that, “Your application for credit could be declined not on the basis of your own finances or credit history, but on the basis of aggregate data.” Judgement shouldn’t be based on what’s seen online, especially when it comes to a person’s finances. When looking at laws as a whole, I think that certain laws are necessary for the general body’s safety, but some laws make it inconvenient for people’s daily lives.
