The Wife of Bath: Stereotype or Woman Wonder?
Women, God’s gift--or curse, depending on who is asked--to man. They come in a variety of sizes and shapes: small, big, tall, short, dark haired, brown eyed, etcetera and so on. Without a doubt, there is always beauty within them, but there is one thing that remains constant: there will always be something to complain about. They talk too much, they laugh too loud, they have a creepy relationship with their cat, or they have too many cats (which is easily understood as a reason to not be with a man). These stereotypes have been around forever, and all men, since the time they could pick up pens, have made good use of them in literary works. One interesting character to look at is Chaucer’s creation Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales. She is a proto-feminist with some stereotypical tendencies. In creating her, Chaucer straddles the line between women being what is expected and women trying to define themselves.
	The Wife of Bath, while a proto-feminist in some opinions, is not without stereotype. In the General Prologue, it is stated: “In felaweshipe wel coude she laughe and carpe” (Line 476). It is a typical stereotype that women laugh and or talk too much. Another stereotype is that women are only out for their own gain which is evidenced by the Wife of Bath’s Prologue: “What sholde I taken keep hem for to plese,/But it were for my profit and myn ese?” (Lines 219-220). This is also proven by her Prologue Lines Forty-five and Forty-six: “Of whiche I have piked out the beste/Bothe of hir nether purs and of hir cheste” She willingly admits that she picked each man for his money and male equipment. 
In Lines 449 through 450 of the General Prologue, Chaucer praises her ability as a seamstress (Lines 455). A woman would know how to sew as well as, if she were wealthy, be in possession of finer things. Her Tale is also something interesting to look at. In her Prologue, she has swagger. She is liberal in her speech. She talks about how she has a love for alcohol (Lines 200 and 469).  However, her Tale is a relatively conservative romance, which is soft in senseability, much like women were supposed to be. 
But she does challenge these stereotypes by proving to be a pistol.  Chaucer throws in some details that show she may not be a typical woman. He says she has “hosen weren of fin scarlet reed” and “bold was hir face, and fair, and reed of hewe” in a time when red was supposed to denote passion or hot blood (Lines 458 and 460).  He further describes her as gap-toothed--which was also a sign of amorousness--and comfortably astride her horse, with spur no less (General Prologue Lines 470-471 and 475). Another interesting thing Chaucer points out about the Wife of Bath is that she is well traveled. She has been to Jerusalem, Rome, Boulogne, Gallica, and Cologne, which is very atypical because it seems that she did not travel so in the company of her husband (General Prologue Lines 465-468).
She has also been around the block.  In Lines Six and Eight of her prologue, she says,“Housbondes at chirche dore I have had five --...And alle were worthy men in hir degree.” Chaucer remarks in General Prologue Lines 477 and 478, “Of remedies of love she knew perchaunce,/ For she coude of that art the olde daunce.” She proves to be the dominant partner in her marriages as evidenced by Lines 155 through 156 and 164: “I have the power during al my lif” and “In wifhood wol I use my instrument/ as freely as my Makere hath it sent.” She keeps her men in check through sex.  He can have sex whenever he likes just so long as he relinquishes control to her (her Prologue Line 158). It is through sex, she says, that she owns her husband’s body, his land, and his money. 
She also brings up an interesting point in her Prologue Lines Sixty-one through Sixty-three: “I woot wel Abraham was an holy man,/And Jacob eek, as fer as evere as I can;/And eech of hem hadde wives mo than two.” She challenges the men to find evidence that God forbids marriage or that He commands a woman’s body.  She knows full well that they will not find that kind of evidence because she says to them, “He putte it in oure owene juggement;/ For hadde God comanded maidenhede,/ Thanne hadde he dampned wedding with the deede” (her Prologue Lines 74-76). Those lines also hammer home the point she made in Lines Twenty-eight through Thirty-nine: God wants humans to go forth and multiply, and He also never said anything about how many people one person multiplied with. 
In Lines 240 through 274,--the “Thou Saist” part of the Prologue--,  she chastises men because they list all the reasons women are more trouble than they are worth. If a woman is not a burden and an expense because she is poor, then she is too prideful and full of angry moods because she is high born (her Prologue Lines 254-258). If a woman is beautiful, then every man wants her, or if she is ugly, she will throw herself at every man (her Prologue Lines 259 and 271-272). Her fifth husband, Janekin, has a book that exemplifies these terrible traits that the men complain about but “if wommen hadden writen stories...they wolde han writen of men more wikkednesse” (Lines 699 and 701).  Men have all these standards for which women should hold themselves, but they do not look at how they themselves act.
 In the time of Chaucer, women were not bold creatures. They were outcasts if they showed qualities of being pro-active or dominant. The Wife of Bath was a take charge kind of woman. She drank, she traveled, she had sex, and she enjoyed those things. She was open about them in a way that other women of the time were not. She knew the role she was playing. She did not care that she did not live up to man’s or society’s expectation of women, but rather, to what her own expectation of what a woman ought to be.
