Black Men and Public Space Diagnostic
Although Brent Staples’, “Black Men and Public Space” first appeared on Harper’s magazine in 1986, we see many similarities in modern society. In his essay, Staples explains some strategies or new precautions he believed was necessary to make him appear “less threatening” to other people. Staples explain of certain “tension reducing measures” he took like whistling classical melodies, or in some cases changed in route to make others feel comfortable. I do not believe that Staples or anyone should have to adapt to such strategies for the comfort of others.
Systematic racial oppression has been institutionalized ever since the enslavement of people of color. We have been taught that the pigmentation of skin is a very important factor, in which others will hold you accountable to. Due to the power dynamic, the oppressor seems to have enough power to change people
perception of you. You may be a good person, but if others of higher power speak negative things about you, even if they are untrue, they stick to you. In this case there are several stereotypes that have been imposed on a young black male. In several cases Staples describes how the stereotypes people have for black males, make them act in a different manner. 
In one section, Staple explains how walking down a street and a white woman ran away after noticing he was going the same way. In another instance he was mistaken for a burglar. As a black male, Staples faced a lot of hardships due to the ignorance and racial oppression. 
	Staple begins to conclude his essay explaining what he has found to be his “equivalent of the cowbell that hikers wear when they know they are in a bear country (Staples). He learned to in a way camouflage and not get in the way. I do not believe these measures should have been taken. I believe staple should act in a way that makes him feel comfortable. Nobody, especially marginalized communities, should have to act a certain way to make others feel safe. People, such as Brent Staple should be respected and be given the dignity he deserved. People should not act upon stereotypes because they do not apply to everyone it was meant to target. 
	In a sense, it felt as though he had to do certain things to avoid other things from happening. For example I found it to sound like, “cover up more to prevent rape”. You should not have to take certain measure to ensure your safety or avoid judgment. Those are things that should be ensured for everyone of every race, sex and gender.
