 Social life has been drained from millennials by social networking sites. Kids do not get to experience real-life connection between people. We need to monitor how much time millennials spend on social media. When people walk around on the streets, they will always have their nose buried in their phone, not making conversation. When I was younger I would play with toys, but now when my brother and cousin hang out, all they do is play on snapchat. 

I have always heard if you stay on your phone on social media, you will not have any real-life connection between people. Most people just talk though social media with no real-life connection. So, when people do meet in person, they will not know how to act since you have been stuck behind a screen the whole time. Getting to say whatever you wanted to. Getting out more in the world will help us connect with people face to face.

When I see people walking around on the streets or in the mall, they are always on their phones on social media sights. They are always with friends as well, so they ignore their friends that they are with now, for their social media friends. Being on your phone all the time is actually sad because all you have to do is just put your phone down or put it vibrate on.

When I was younger, I would play with toys and talk to my friends I was with that day. Now, when my cousin and brother come to play, they really do not talk at all. All they want to do is sit on their phones and play on snapchat or some other social media app. When you were younger, you did not have to deal with streaks on snapchat or how many likes is that photo going to get on Instagram. This is all my cousin and brother think about now.

In conclusion, the millennials have been drained from their social life by social media. They do not get to experience real life connections between people. When they walk on the streets or at the mall their noses are always going to be buried in their phone rather than talking to their friends. Nowadays, instead of playing with toys, you play with social media. We need to get a better grip on this generation and how they handle their media.





