It was year twenty-thirteen and I was in the second semester of my freshman year. The 
spring sun was shining throughout my neighborhood while the bees were collecting pollen for 
fresh honey. I was heading home thinking of everything I had to prepare for in dance class. Our 
spring dance concert was coming up in one week and I wanted to prove to myself that I could be 
a dancer. I walked into the house to see my grandmother and grandfather crying in the living 
room. 
 They were not the people who would cry often for little thing unless it was a death of 
someone they knew. I closed the door behind myself and started walking towards them knowing 
it could not be the worst. I asked my grandmother what happened, but once she started talking 
everything was silent. I knew her mouth was moving, but I all I could hear was my heart
breaking for the news. My great-great grandmother, Ms. Georgia had died in a nursing home.  
When I was younger we would move all around Marietta, Georgia to be near my grandma, Georgia. You may ask why I called her grandma Georgia when she is my second great 
grandmother; well I was taught that it was easier to call her grandma Georgia than to say great
great grandmother Georgia. Grandma Georgia lived near Marietta square on a street called Lemon Street. Her little duplex was on the corner near a stop sign and in front of a massive white church. In her yard she had a tall pecan tree that would drop fresh nuts every day and a small pepper plant that would grow spicy vibrant peppers.  Grandma Georgia raised my grandmother when her mother died in her twenties. She lived in that same small duplex for majority of her life, but why was she put in a nursing home? My uncle took rights over grandma Georgia when she was near ninety then put her in the nursing home to make it easier to take care of her. She always told us to never put her in a nursing home because she knew she would die faster.  
All I could think about was losing the back bone to our family; losing the person who would give money to us when she did not need to. All I could really think about was her sitting in her living room watching the Atlanta Brave’s enjoying every second. I had to miss my dress rehearsal to go to her funeral. I did not want to see her like that especially when the last time I did see her, she was smiling watching us grow up. Even though they said Ms. Georgia lived a fulfilling life, I still knew she would have lived longer if she was living in the place that made her happy.  
Above all, losing someone is not easy when you knew their life could have been 
different. No one had closer in my family after her death and the happiness was gone until a 
couple of months later. Our house felt depressed and upsetting with everything that happened 
when we could have least suspected it. The impact that was caused felt like a bomb blowing up 
in your face without you pressing the button. Ms. Georgia was an amazing woman with a heart of gold.
