Thematic Comparison

In the world of writing, style is a big term. Each writer has their own unique style, and this is what makes their writings what it is today.  Each writer style comes from things like their childhood and other events that have happened in their past. Two authors I would like to focus on are Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne. Both authors Childhood, Education, and areas they lived impacted how they write.

	With Nathaniel Hawthorne, it is very easy to see where his style of writing comes from. Hawthorne lived in Salem after the famous witch trails. He even has family that was evolved in the trails. So ashamed of his name, he would change his last name. In his writing you can see where he gets his inspiration with a lot of talk about the devil and how emotional his writing is. Salem is also where his mother died, and this also would have had an impact on Hawthorne’s life. From being raised there to living there during tough times it is quite easy to see the effects in his writing. (studymode.com)

Kate Chopin education is a big influence in her writing. She attended St. Louis academy of sacred heart. Growing up she was raised by her Mother and Grandmother. At college she would by taught and cared for by nuns. A lot of her writing comes from how she was raised and nurtured. Her writing style can be reflected also where she lived after her childhood. She would live in in St. Louis after her childhood and would raise six children herself. Being a caring mother herself is also shown in her writing as her style shows how she was as a mother.(kate chopin.net)

So, from their childhood to their education there past shows all in their writings. Salem really has a strong effect in Hawthorne’s writing and St. Louis has about the same in Chopin’s. The way each one was raised easily is seen in there writing. Each one of their styles have allowed them to write very good works. These works are considered some great works of each of their times. They both took their personal experiences and were able to turn it in to great works. 




Work citied 

""Nathaniel Hawthorne 5 Annotated Bibliographnd Research Papers." StudyMode - Premium and Free Essays, Term Papers & Book Notes. Accessed February 09, 2018. http://www.studymode.com/subjects/nathaniel-hawthorne-5-annotated-bibliography-page1.html.

"Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, stories." KateChopin.org. Accessed February 09, 2018. https://www.katechopin.org/biography/.