5 Paragraph Essay
	Being stared at is something that my family had to get used to, living in a predominately white state.  Society has this preconceived notion that black families do not live together interest separated.  Seeing my family together and happy seems to confuse people when we walk into restaurants, and quite honestly, it is interesting to watch.  Eating at predominately white restaurants is something that my family tries not to do; we try to find places with a variety of customers however, my mom, being from the south, those to eat at Cracker Barrel, but my dad and I always refuse.  Like Brent Staples constantly had to alter public space in various ways (as mentioned in his essay), I have also altered public space by entering a place and had to fit in by changing the pitch of my voice, smiling constantly, or leaving the facility.
	Over the years, I have noticed that when speaking to a white person (and depending on the person), they seem to be intimidated by the power of my voice.   I have often change the pitch for tone of my voice in order to come office non-threatening.   I remember when they have my family and I walk into a white restaurant, (whose name I cannot recall at this time), don’t waitress seem to be more and more in shock as we walked up to the door.  My father is a tall end rather large man; noticing that his presence alarmed the girl, he motioned for my mom and I to talk to her instead.  Knowing that my mother wanted me to take charge, I went along and told her there’re four of us to be seated, but before I did this, I made sure that I made my voice sound as white as possible in order to calm her nerves; it worked.  It’s almost like trying to keep the cat calm.  They don’t respond to deep masculine voices; they’d rather hear a high-pitched feminine voice.  In this case, hey high-pitched “white-sounding” voice.  Throughout our visit, all of the white staff seemed nervous and stared at us, trying to make it not so obvious.  I believe that the service and we received would not have been as great if I had not only tried to sound “white” and put the waitress and staff at ease, but also if we hadn’t smile constantly at each other while sitting in the booth.
	 Smiling constantly is something that black people tend to do in order to put white people at ease and come off as nonthreatening.   It sends the message that you’re a “happy negro” or a “good negro”, which seems to lessen the chances of men being seen as dangerous, and changes the energy at the white person initially had towards him.  However, this not only applies to men and women as well.  In my school, I was one out of at least eight black students in my school.  This school in particular was notorious for racism and trying to keep black kids out of college.  One thing that seemed to keep faculty and administration from seeing me as a threat was: smiling constantly.  When a black person smiles the white person doesn’t become as tense as he or she was.  This strangely seemed to keep me out of dangerous situation such as been framed, or being suspected for something that I didn’t do.  Most teachers, I had never said a word to, yet they say “oh, she’s so sweet!”.  That’s when I knew my theory was true.  But there were times where I had gotten tired of smiling; then I would hear “hey, why don’t you smile?” or “I never see you smile”.  It felt like I was in the movie Coraline, always being scolded for not smiling. 
	There have also been times when my family and I decided to go out to a certain diner.  We would walk out of the facility because we have altered the space in a negative way just by being black.  There is a diner down the street from our house, an “all American” diner.  We had never been to it; so, we decided to eat there that night; we were also on a budget. The moment we walked in, we felt as if we had stepped back into the 1950s, as literally everyone stared at us with an evil look.  We could feel the hatred in the room; all that was missing was a “no coloreds allowed” sign!  Of course, this was my mother’s choice; there’re so many similar situations that we had been in, but this restaurant was different.  We were afraid that they would jump us, and no one would serve us; so, we turned around and left.
	A similar situation occurred a few months later when we travel to Ohio and stopped at a “Steak and Shake”.  It was as if everything stood still.  But I had to use the restroom; so, I dared them to follow me in or blocked my path. There was nothing but a bunch of old white men and women, and they stared at me as I walked to the back.  I know they didn’t like it; so, I found it funny that they couldn’t do anything about it.  But all eyes were on my family.  One man dropped his cane while we waited.  I think he was blind.  I picked up just to be nice; I never got a “thank you”.  
	 Today my family still tries to avoid predominately white restaurants.   But I will no longer change the sound of my voice to make someone else feel comfortable.   People still stare, but now that I am older, and my family has lived in Pennsylvania for over 25 years, we are used to it.  But my mom knows better than to recommend Cracker Barrel or any other all-American diner for dinner.
