Rhetoric appeals of maya angelou
	Many authors try and utilize the use of rhetorical appeals. When authors or publishers write their excerpts they aim for the 3 main appeals, ethos, logos, and pathos. In doing so they can create their credibility through properly using the rhetoric appeals. In bringing in the rhetoric appeals it can bring more persuasion or more influence into their writing. In Maya Angelou's’ excerpt “Letter to my Daughter” it has a critical amount of the 3 rhetorical appeals throughout the story. She creates a good amount of ethos, logos, and pathos that makes her writing very insightful and really captivates her ideas about what she wants to get across to her readers. She speaks in her writings that she has many thoughtful things that she believes are important to her perspective audience. She speaks about how there are many lessons in life that can influence the things we learn and what we can choose to do with the information. There are many sources that have ideas on her excerpts, and also they believe they know what rhetoric appeals she uses in her excerpt. 
In Maya Angelou’s excerpt “letter to my daughter”,  she brings a substantial amount of pathos in her main argument. When she speaks about her life aspect, she describes her grandmother in a soft and tender way to make the reader imagine what she might look like. Also she describes her landlord as tender and grandmotherly. So she is creating a sense that she is a caring and sweet person that she has her to have her back in a way. Then later in the story she describes her mother later in kind of the same way describing a correlation between her and her mother. Creating emotion in the sense that people in life are critical in the world today. She then also creates more emotion of empowerment by stating that she has a son, but then has million daughters throughout the world. “I gave birth to one child, a son, but I have thousands of daughters. You are Black and White, Jewish and Muslim, Asian, Spanish speaking, Native Americans and Aleut. You are fat and thin and pretty and plain, gay and straight, educated and unlettered, and I am speaking to you all. Here is my offering to you.” (Maya Angelou ch. 8). She uses a lot of pathos in her argument that in the daughter that she never had, there is still life worth living and should be taken care with caution. Then, she assess that her grandmother is a great influence on her life and also when she went to her mother at 13 years of age, she comes back as a new woman when she gets back to her mother. She impacts her readers when she creates this situation because 
Continuing on the pathos ideals, she brings a substantial amount of pathos in the passage “Letter to my Daughter”, she is an insightful story on how she can be an idol to many young girls around the world. Taken from an expert named Yvonne Hogan she claims that she is a pivotal part of how girls should be in the world today provided that she knows is a good way to live life like. “However, Angelou's life lessons resonate far beyond the African-American woman, and speak to women everywhere.” She later assesses in the excerpt that the only way to live life is by making choices in the world as a young woman. It is critical and essential to the learning process because she states you can learn the process by failure.  “In Letter, she gives us the old chestnuts like: "You may not control all the events that happen to you but you can decide not to be reduced by them. ... if you cannot make a change, change the way you have been thinking. You might find a new solution." (yvonne hogan pg 10).  The analyst says that from reading the passage, you need to be flexible in the choices you make because every choice that you make will have some consequences that you wouldn’t expect to happen. Also, that failing is a part of living life. She believes that Maya is trying to get the reader to believe what she says by using what she's already experienced as fuel to her rhetorical appeals. Yvonne states, “She was also a single mother and, for a time, a cook and a waitress. She has experienced discrimination and celebration, poverty and wealth, misery and happiness. She is a woman of substance and if she has something to say, millions of women around the world are only too happy to listen.” (Yvonne 3) . So, in knowing that Maya Angelou is a well known author she has the rhetorical appeal of ethos in pertaining to credibility. 
Maya Angelou's message to her readers across the board is that failing is a good way to learn lessons and be wiser in making choices. In failing or making mistakes you will learn to better handle the situations that come in your life at certain times. “You will fail. It’s inevitable. It’s your destiny as a human. It’s in your DNA. You will fall, you will scrape your knees, and, as my daughter, you will probably lie on the ground, sobbing, saying, “I can’t get up!! I just can’t!“ That’s OK.” (Kerry Vollherbst pg 1). An analysis named Kerry Vollherbst says after analyzing the article, that failing is okay, as long as you learn from the mistake that you previously made. “you cannot screw this up. And I don’t mean that in a threatening, Don’t screw this up!!” way. I mean that screwing it up is impossible. There’s a ground below your feet.” (Kerry Vollherbst pg 4).  Kerry then goes on by stating that completely failing is impossible because coming back from failure is attainable. In the excerpt of Maya Angelou, she uses the rhetorical appeals to get her point across to her readers. She brings the sense that making mistakes or having minor setbacks is okay because you will gain more comprehension in their life that the reader can pass on to their children, which then in return their children will pass it down to their children. 
In Maya Angelou’s excerpt “Letter to my Daughter” is a well renowned story that is a good utilizer of the 3 main rhetorical appeals. In using the pathos rhetoric appeal effectively, she also utilizes the ethos appeals well. She creates a strong central argument by creating a fine amount of credibility. She is credible, because she is a well known artist in poetry and is also a teacher as well. Her being a teacher in the world makes her credible because it means that the person knows what they are talking about in real life situations. Establishing ethos in stories is essential because it makes what she says more believable and makes her argument more appealing to the reader. She is also a mother, so she also has a sense of how to take care of children and knowing that choices in life can dictate the other choices you would make in your or her lifetimes. Her perspective audience in the excerpt is for young females of all races and ethnicities. One of her messages is that feel that they are not powerless to the fact that their choices will have consequences; good or bad. “However, Angelou's life lessons resonate far beyond the African-American woman, and speak to women everywhere.”	(Yvonne Hogan pg. 11). She keeps up the sense that her as a mother is it her obligation to educate the young girls in the world, to give them hope and sense of pridefulness in being a young woman. 
In addition to ethos rhetorical appeal, she well gives young yomen  some confidence in knowing that some of the future choices they make they will make, they will grow from them and be better knowledgeable about that choice from then on.she brings the idea that the young women in the world should believe her, and take what she says to heart because she is a woman who’s lived it before. She claims in the excerpt that the things she experiences, the choices and mistakes she makes will not change her future choices, but rather she will learn from that choice and take it to heart. ““I can be changed by what happens to me. But I refuse to be reduced by it.” (Angelou 23.). Another she makes that assertion in the excerpt because her son is going through a lot as a boy of color and that he should have a better outlook on things, and tells him that the world should not know how you feel. That it should keep up the illusion that nothing can phase you or get to you in any sense. “Other students you don’t even know will smile and you will smile. But on the other hand, I am your mother. I tell you what I want you to do. If you can force one smile on your face for strangers, do it for me. I promise you I will appreciate it." (Maya Angelou pg. 23). She is saying that you can put on a face for people so they cannot tell if anythings wrong with you or not. Her son will believe her due to the credibility that she possesses. She is his mother so he will listen due that she has priority over him and also that she will only tell him things that she knows for a fact due to the expertise she has in her life, that he does not possess. 
Maya angelou is a well known writer, speaker and well known artist by the many people around the globe. Since she is a well known writer she knows how to use her rhetoric appeals effectively. She uses the logos appeal effectively by using common sense in her language and her word diction. She uses her personal facts with her real life scenarios which she uses common sense to make her argument more credible.  In her writing she touched the hearts of readers in her real life scenarios by making readers believe what she was feeling as their own feelings. Written from an article an analysis by the name of Jennifer Melville states, “ Angelou's words were so poetic and musical I felt as if she were speaking directly to me. I learned of her best and worst moments in life, her ideas about love, death, violence, patriotism and spirituality. I really liked how she illustrated an important situation in her life without telling the reader what to take away from the scene.” (Jennifer Melville pg 2). She is very moved by the rhetorical appeals that Angelou uses in her excerpt. In Melville's assessment of Maya Angelou’s excerpt “Letter to my Daughter” she is very moved by the rhetorical appeals and further explains that in the excerpt that she is a strong woman and she states her rhetorical appeals are very well used and that her scenarios have value to her readers without really stating what the reader is supposed to receive from the excerpt. 
In culmination of Maya Angelou’s excerpt “letter to my Daughter” it is an award winning book and is a message to young people around the world, distinctly young women, that all their lives have meaning by making choices, making mistakes but in the end learning from those mistakes. She writes an effective excerpt by utilizing the 3 main components of the rhetorical appeals. Angelou’s critically uses the 3 main appeals, ethos, which establishes her credibility in her text. She also critically uses her logos, which she establishes her logical appeal which makes her argument more believable to her audience. Then finally in her excerpt, “Letter to my Daughter”, she uses the most the pathos appeal, which she uses that to appeal to her audience’s emotion. Angelou uses these three key appeals to connect with the reader and create a better story. 





Works Cited

Vollherbst, Kerry. “A Letter to My Future Daughter About Failure.” The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 15 June 2015, www.huffingtonpost.com/kerry-vollherbst/a-letter-to-my-future-daughter-about-failure_b_7567038.html. Accessed 18 Sept. 2017.

2012 Signature	January. “Excerpt: "Letter to My Daughter" by Maya Angelou.” Signature Reads, 9 July 2015, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 10 Sept. 2017.

Hogan, Yvonne. “Review: Letter to my Daughter by Maya Angelou.” Independent.ie, Independent.ie, 29 Nov. 2012, www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/review-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou-26625604.html. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
Melville, Jennifer . “Random House.” Letter to My Daughter: by Maya Angelou: Story Circle Book Reviews, 6 Oct. 2008, www.storycirclebookreviews.org/reviews/letterdaughter.shtml. Accessed 22 Sept. 2017.
