Martin Luther King’s Jr. Sermon

	The Vietnam War was a long and costly conflict between the communist regime North Vietnam against South Vietnam. Ho Chi Minh, leader of Viet Minh, led Vietnam to defeat, Japan in 1945 where he was considered a hero by the Vietnamese. He later proclaimed Vietnam’s Independence on September 2nd, 1845 by quoting the United States declaration of independence. However, Vietnam was a French colony under Japan’s occupation, so by seeing Japan’s defeat France wanted to reclaim the Vietnam territory. In order to claim Vietnam back France received aid from the United States, but the French were losing the war either ways, so to settle this war they had the Geneva Accords. Through these accords, The United States hopes that the war would end in their favor by having Vietnam be ruled by Ngo Dinh Diem as the leader rather than Ho Chi Ming. The United States saw Ho Chi Minh as a disaster because he was a communist and wanted Vietnam to be independence where the United States didn’t see this as a good way. As the elections went on Ho Chi Minh had the majority vote due to being the people’s favorite election. The United States did not like this idea, so they try to force it by going to war against Vietnam by joining forces with South Vietnam. Many people did not see the war against Vietnam with good eyes because they thought it was unnecessary to go to War against Vietnam.

One of the most influential leaders of this time Martin Luther King Jr. gave his own sermon about the Vietnam War on April 30, 1967, in which he outlines his opposition to the Vietnam War, and addresses the reasons why the war on Vietnam should not continue. Dr. King’s conscious leaves him with no other choice than to preach about the war at Vietnam with his seven major reasons for why this is an unjust, evil, futile war. He claims that the war was doing far more than devastating the hope of the poor at home because they were given this promise hope to accomplish their dreams although the government did not the fund or intentions to fund these programs for them. The United States still mistreated the poor blacks with inequality, where Dr. King expressed the Irony of watching both blacks and whites fighting together and dying together at war although blacks back at home did not have the same equality as whites they were more segregated. He then asked, “Why is it that they, blacks and whites, kill and die side by side, but they do not have the same equality in society?” Dr. King gave the reason on why he is deciding to speak about this war by stating “As I have walked among the desperate, rejected, and angry young men, I have told them that Molotov cocktails and rifles would not solve their problems. I have tried to offer them my deepest compassion while maintaining my conviction that social change comes most meaningfully through non-violent action; for they ask and write me, "So what about Vietnam?" They asked if our own nation wasn’t using massing doses of violence to solve its problems, to bring about the changes it wanted.” Furthermore, Dr. King argues that Vietnam see’s the United States as liberators because the people from Vietnam proclaimed their independence in 1945 and quoted our declaration of independence on their document of freedom. Martin Luther King argued that we shouldn’t go to war because as seen they are following our footsteps and just want their freedom, but instead we are attacking innocent men, women, and children. President Truman did not recognize their voice of freedom and said that Vietnam is not ready for independence. Dr. King suggests that the United States is doing wrong by wasting billions of dollars for aiding France at war against Vietnam and trying to sabotage the Geneva accords, and by supporting Diem who was one of the most ruthless dictators in the history of the world. The Vietnamese now see the United States as real enemies due to all the bombing, and destruction being caused by the armies and soldiers. Dr. King opposes the war in Vietnam because he loves America, and right now he is disappointed of America because of their failure to deal with “positively and forthrightly with the triple evils of racism, economic exploitation, and militarism.” Martin Luther King says that “We are presently moving down a dead-end road that can lead to national disaster. America has strayed to the far country of racism and militarism.” The last approach Dr. King had on an opposing the war against Vietnamese is that he related the United States to Gods Plan. He considered that the United States was chosen by God to be his divine, messianic force to be a sort of guide to the whole world. Martin Luther King then said, “God has a way of standing before the nations with judgment, and it seems that I can hear God saying to America, "You're too arrogant! And if you don't change your ways, I will rise and break the backbone of your power, and I'll place it in the hands of a nation that doesn't even know my name. Be still and know that I'm God." After Martin Luther King Jr. gave his sermon he received a lot of controversy, and some were from his fellow African Americans.

Martin Luther King had followers who would support his sermon, and then he had people who were against his views toward the War at Vietnam. The article “Harris Survey: Dr. King’s Possible Influence” by Louis Harris showed us that the largest segment of African American opinion which was 48% believed that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is wrong in his stand on the Vietnam War. Harris further states that “No more than one-third of the Negro population is willing to endorse the view that Dr. King’s foreign policy stand will hurt their struggle for equal opportunity on the home front.” Also, the Harris Survey suggest that Martin Luther King opposition may have a big outcome on presidential election race due to having a lot of opposing supporters on this issue especially with his own people. The opposition of Dr. King to President Johnson could have decided the outcome in the 1968 race because Johnson gained 95% of the Negro votes. This show’s that Dr. King did not have that much support from his people after his sermon about the Vietnam War. If Martin Luther King continues through his threat to opposing president Johnson in 1968 over Vietnam, the patterns among Negro voters may change.

Dr. Martin Luther King’s Jr.’s opposition to the Vietnam war was attacked by a fellow Negro Carl T. Rowan. Mr. Rowan said that “Dr. King had created doubt about the Negro’s loyalty to his country.” So, there will be blacks that would start questioning Martin Luther King’s standings. He continues to claim that Dr. King had rejected pleas against wading into the Vietnam controversy because some say that it was his ego because he was convinced that he was the most influential negro in the United States, so President Johnson would have to listen to him and alter the United States policy. Dr. Kings once said that the poor blacks are being treated unfairly, and they are getting sent to war, however, Mr. Rowan acknowledges that most Negroes are proud of being part of the integrated performance of G.I.’s in Vietnam and that most Negros see this as a patriotic value for their country America.  

Captain McCaskill is another of many African Americans who opposed Dr. king’s opposition to the war, but at the same time he agreed with Dr. King at some instances. Captain McCaskill agrees with Martin Luther King that the United States is spending billions of dollars in Vietnam that could be used to help the blacks in the city, however he then states “But I think that he makes a false assumption when he concludes that the money would be used for that purpose if there were no war going on. They didn’t appropriate the money to help the Negroes before the war. Why would they now?” Captain McCaskill then argues that rather than doing good, Dr. King has done them more harm where they think that they should not have any business getting civil rights mixed up with Vietnam due to “It will cost them Negro support and it will cost them white liberal support.”  He also argues that there has been biased in the draft where a larger number of negroes were serving in the war over than the whites. Which is an idea that agrees with Dr. King because Martin Luther King also stated reasons that they are just sending the poor innocent black people to war. However, Captain McCaskill is not bothered with this discriminatory process because he sees it as a benefit for the blacks in most civilian situations. McCaskill says that “Negro officers feel they must compete against other Negro officers for promotion rather than against all the men in their grade.” Which he described it as a “sort of informal quota system only so many Negro officers make major, even if all the Negroes are the best qualified.” Captain McCaskill had a mix reception about Dr. Kings opposition on the Vietnam War because in some instances he would agree with Martin Luther King, and then on other he would contradict them to state how it would benefit the blacks or on how the government would still be the same by not helping the poor black people with the programs promised.

The article “Civil Rights King Sees a Dual Mission” by Gene Roberts, further implies that after a while many negroes and sympathetic whites hope for Martin Luther King to turn back his attention to the Civil Rights movement and that the things he mentioned about the war in Vietnam were everything he had to say about the war. However, Dr. King realizes that “the civil rights struggle cannot really be won anyways until the war is settled.” Martin Luther King made it clear that the civil rights supporters who criticized him for his stand against the war never really understood him. He also argues that he sees that the United States has turned their back on the problems the poor blacks are facing poverty in order to support the war. This opposition to the war has drawn Dr. King closer to the black power organization who have opposed the war for more than a year. Although Martin Luther King alliance with the black power organization is a step he would not take. Eventually, they don’t see that there could be an affect to his standing with the mass of Negroes, including many of those who vigorously support the war effort. This shows that although they may not like what Dr. King has to say they will still support him and will think highly of him as the greatest living American.







