 Writing Assignment 
                                                                           September 20, 2017
The internet was introduced to the public in the early 2000s bringing a new platform for communication, marketing, and other departments.  Though with this new way of life came many complications to our society. By being a platform for communication, it is easy to find information on anyone by just looking them up on social sites, like Facebook. In this article, Andrews explains how Facebook uses this information to make a profit. She is against this because she explains how it negatively affects peoples career opportunities, credit score, and insurance status. 
Andrew uses many negative examples to explain why she is against FaceBook using people for their profit.  For instance, “Employers sometimes decide whether to hire people based on their online profiles, with one study indicating that 70% of recruiters and human resource professionals in the United States have rejected candidates based on data found online.”(FaceBook is using you p5)  In other words, just based on the personal information that you post online employers could deny you a job. Likewise, “ When an Atlanta man returned from his honeymoon, he found that his credit limt had been lowered to $3,800 from$10,800……. The company told him other customers who have used their card at establishments where you recently shopped have poor repayment history with American Express.”(p6) By looking up information on where he shopped, this company thought he would have bad credit automatically. Finally this selling of information could ruin a persons insurance status. For example “ You might be refused health insurance based on a Google search you did on your medical health.” .(p9) In the examples, she shows how bad this can be.
In all honesty, I wholeheartedly agree with Andrews point of view. It’s not right in any way to make a profit off a person's personal information without their permission and while it harms them in the process.  Though United States laws don’t necessarily help people to prevent these actions, they are still needed in society. Laws provide a balance to everyday life and our U.S system. Without them, there would never be peace.
