Purple Hibiscus Literary Analysis
Set in Nigeria sometime during the Nigerian Civil War, Purple Hibiscus is the story of a broken home with emotionally crippled family members; all told from a 15-year-old Kambili’s perspective. Her father, Eugene, is the main source that is causing the family so much pain. He physically, psychologically, and mentally abuses the family; yet, he is so loving towards them at the same time. Through all of these conflicting personality traits one might ask, what role does Eugene/Papa play in Purple Hibiscus? Chimanda Ngozi Adichie uses symbolism, imagery, and tone to explore Eugene’s complex relationship with his family.
Symbolism is a literary device where symbols, such as objects, are used to represent themes and ideas. Purple Hibiscus flowers are used as a symbol in the book. The flower represents freedom and hope for the entire family, but mostly for Jaja. Each time that the flower is brought up in the book, someone is doing what they want to and are happy. The tone also momentarily shifts to a much more uplifting one. The first time that purple flowers are brought up is when Papa is overly angry with Jaja and the rest of the family as usual. On Palm Sunday when Jaja got in trouble and Papa got violent, Kambili mentioned a purple flower. “The purple plants had started to push out sleepy buds” (pg 9). The visual of the flower was a symbol of change. There was also some foreshadowing in this part as well. Since the purple hibiscuses were just beginning to bud while the red ones were in full bloom was a symbol of something new to come. The new flowers were emerging in the midst of the other fully developed flowers at the same time that Jaja was beginning a change in the family, mainly a change in family dynamic. Jaja was the family member to inspire change in the family by being the first to act out. He did not follow Papa’s rules and that brought out a change in both Kambili and Mama. After Jaja is put into prison for taking the fall for Mama he is told by Kambili that he will get out of jail soon. Shortly after leaving from the visit with Jaja, Kambili begins to think about the things that she wants to do once Jaja gets out of prison. She mentions that she wants Jaja to plant purple hibiscus. The final symbol of the purple plant symbolizes change and a new beginning just like at the beginning of the book. The whole thing comes full circle. 
Adichie uses imagery in Purple Hibiscus. Imagery is when situations are described in great detail. Kambili describes the way that her father looks and acts in great detail. She tends to do so when she is trying to make sure that he’s being pleased. Kambili wants nothing but to please her father no matter what. When they are in church Papa is seen as a perfect human being. Everyone has great things to say about him. No one is aware of the things that he does when he is at home. Papa puts up this façade by acting “holier than thou” in public. “Most people did not kneel when taking communion… but Papa did” states Kambili (pg 4). “He would hold his eyes shut so hard that his face tightened into a grimace, and… stick his tongue out as far as it could go” (pg 4). Papa uses this over exaggeration to prove that he truly is the best. If he does more than everyone else then he is truly the best. The reader can see this through Kambili’s description of her father. The imagery displays Eugene’s complex relationship because Papa doesn’t act the way he does in public at home; this also shoes in Kambili’s description of her father at home. Kambili describes her father while at home and gives him monstrous traits. “His face looked swollen already, with pus-tipped rashes spread across every inch, but it seemed to be swelling even more” (pg 6). When Papa is at home with the family, Kambili describes his face in gruesome detail. In television, when something bad is about to happen, a character is bad, or a situation gets bad, then someone on screen ends up looking disgusting. One show that is notorious for this, even though it’s a cartoon, is Spongebob. They always do gross close ups of characters when a situation seems to be turning sour just like in this scene of Purple Hibiscus. The contrasting images of Papa in public and at home show his two sides, his loving side and his aggressive side.
Tone is the overall feel of a piece. The tone of Purple Hibiscus goes through many changes throughout the book. Mostly the tone is somber and quiet. Kambili is the narrator of the book which is why this is mostly the tone. Kambili is very shy and does not wish to upset anyone with her thoughts or actions. Whenever Kambili’s mood or attitude changes toward something then the tone changes. When Kambili was sad about Papa breaking Mama’s figurines, the tone shifted. The tone went from a scared and fearful tone to a sad and upset one. The tone could also be described as anxious. All of the tones tones are negative when associated with Papa in this situation. “Papa looked around the room quickly… He picked up the missal and flung it across the room, toward Jaja… The silence was broken only by the whir of the ceiling fan as it sliced through the still air” (pg 7). This tone shift was a first look into one of Papa’s sides with his family. He is intense and scary in this moment and it continues throughout the book. There is another side to Papa though. When Papa cries when Kambili and Jaja leave on their trip the tone changes. Not only does Kambili seem to have a mood change, but the reader does as well. The tone goes from mildly irritating to sympathetic.  Kambili states that she has never seen Papa cry like that before. It makes the reader see that through all of the agony that he puts the family through, that he still loves them through thick and thin. It makes one think that maybe Eugene even hurts his family the way that he does because he loves them so much.
Symbolism, imagery, and tone were used in Purple Hibiscus to explore Eugene’s complex relationship with his family. Papa is emotionally, psychologically, and physically abusive to the entire family. Even though he is abusive to the family, he also loves them greatly. He does anything to keep them safe and happy. The amount of conflicting traits from Kambili’s father confuses her in the book. The use of each literary device helped to convey a realistic view of a family in the middle of two wars: the Nigerian Civil War and the war against domestic violence.
