

	In the story “Purple Hibiscus” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, the author portray Eugene as a man of hard beliefs and values. Eugene is extremely hard on his family as the reader continue to read through the story. Growing up with hard parents or with any adult in your life we are told when someone is hard on you it’s because they care and want to see their child or mentee do and become better in life. They want to see us achieve and be great so they push us to do so.  Eugene show a complex relationship to his family because of his beliefs, his family future, and role he play in his community.
	Eugene also known as “papa” is a very religious man. He believe that everyone should follow the word of God in order to be saved and safe of harm's way. His strength for God is so strong he broke ties with his father, Papa-Nnukwu, when Papa-Nnukwu refused to become a Catholic. A second example of Eugene showing great strength to his religion affecting his family would be on page 6 when Jaja missed communion on two successive Sundays and decided not to go to the altar to to win his soul back. Eugene threw the missal across the room to hit Jaja but missed completely. One last example of Eugene showing strong beliefs to strengthen his family faith would be on page 69 when Eugene found out that Jaja and Kambili stayed 25 minutes at Papa-Nnukwu house instead of 15 like they were told. Eugene told them that they must finish their food and then go to their rooms and pray for forgiveness before turning to come back down stairs. Eugene want his family to be safe and have faith in the power of God. With this strong belief he believe this is what will make his family lives better in the future.
Every parent who has a set of beliefs they follow or religion they believe in will always think that to raise their kids with the same beliefs and values with direct them to a greater future. He has his family do certain things such as praying before and after every meal and making schedules for his family day for them to follow. He does not allow his kids to do what normal kids do on a daily such as watch tv. According to Kambili on page 79 they do not watch a lot of T.V because Papa did not pencil it into their schedule time. The family did specific things in a certain way in order for their lives to go a particular way. If they did not follow Eugene rules and obligations it was always a punishment behind it, if it was not verbally or physically it was mentally. He only wanted what was best for his family, where he felt they would be show success at. An example would be putting his kids in private schools. He believe private schools education is better than public and his kids would get better opportunities there. He want his family to shine everywhere they go because of the role he play to his community. Everyone has respect for Eugene everywhere he go and his family must live up to that as well. 
	Everyone know Eugene as a wealthy factor owner and devout catholic. Eugene always gave back to his family, friends, church, and charities. He also is the publisher of the newspaper, The Standard, the only paper that is willing to criticize the corrupt government. And when Papa goes back to his hometown everyone is thrill with excitement. An example would be on page 55 of the book, when Papa was driving to Igbo and when he reached Kambili explained, as they drove past, people waved and called out Papa’s title: “Omelora!”. Another example is also on page 55 when three elderly men standing under the lone ukwa tree near their gates waved and shouted “Nno nu! Nno nu! Have you come back? We will come in soon to say welcome!” This is an example of the respect Eugene receives in his hometown. They also titled him “Omelora” because he was a man who does for his community. Villagers came to greet and give Eugene their happy welcome and proud thanks. Why would Eugene not want the same for his family when they walk into a place? Eugene role in his community is one of the best and his family must live up to that in order to keep him happy and his family reputation the same.
In conclusion, Eugene is a well-known and loved  man everywhere he go. His community always pay their respect when Eugene is around and give nothing but good word when he is not. Although, Eugene is nice to everyone he is extremely hard on his family. He want nothing but the best for his family so he hold high expectations for everyone. Eugene shows tough love to his family. Eugene show a complex relationship to his family because of his beliefs, his family future, and role he play in his community.
