As an aspiring supply chain manager, I am very excited about this course. In particular, I greatly anticipate the opportunity to improve my written communication skills in preparation for a successful career.

While communication skills are critical in any given business field, I feel that they are particularly vital in supply chain management. The very nature of the field, which focuses on efficiency and efficacy, demonstrates the need for precise written language skills as self-evident.

In any given business endeavor, there are thousands are moving parts which allow the enterprise to operate. Supply chain management is the practice of identifying specific processes that can be improved so that a business can function at optimum capacity while minimizing costs. Because there are so many individuals and dynamics coexisting together in any given professional community, the ability to accurately isolate inefficiencies through written language is essential.

For example, if a manufacturing process for an electronics company is identified as flawed, concise instructions must be delivered in a timely fashion to address the problem. There are many possible ways in which this product creation process can be inefficient ranging from faulty equipment, bad location, etc. In order for optimization to occur, a message must be delivered in a relatable way. Problems that appear self-evident to a supply chain manager might not be obvious to a warehouse or distribution manager and that must be considered in the content of a report. In addition, people are typically motivated by positivity and amicability. As I’ve learned so far in my time at UNCW and in my own work experience, relationship building is key to success in a job position.

I hope to improve on my business communication skills, by learning techniques to be thorough, accurate, and concise in my writing. I also anticipate that the content of this course will yield insight on appropriate ways to convey ideas or instructions so as to foster and build relationships within the scope of employment. I am very excited about this course, because I believe it will present the opportunity to practice both of these aspects of successful business writing in a low stress environment. By this course’s termination, I plan on being equipped with tools to effectively address all work place crises as well as motivate myself and coworkers to achieve a high level of success.