Subject: Job Shadowing



I oversaw the camera work of Casey Smith, a recent graduate and a long-time camera operator and DP (Director of Photography). He has done several short films in the past and agreed to let me shadow over him on a new project he’s working on.

I chose him because we’ve worked together on the same film before, though in different environments: he was a DP during production while I had helped screen write during pre-production. We exchanged contacts then and I was able to schedule a day where they filmed a scene in the woods at night. It was a horror movie short.

During the night he showed me the steps to setting up his camera and the lighting. I’ve had previous film experience, but I had little experience in the technicalities of a camera and how it is worked professionally. He showed me how to set the perfect lighting, framing, aperture settings, frames per second, and motions to the particularities of every scene.

Operating a camera is not simply turning it on and following the subject, as he explained. Everything must be planned before the camera is turned on; the motions are planned, the environment is controlled, and the settings on the camera are manually pre-set for the one shot. No setting on the camera is left on automatic, as that is the default most digital cameras are set to. Everything from the focus to the coloration is manual, and it is the biggest challenge for a camera operator as it requires absolute attention and practice to fully master. 

This experience definitely reinforced my interests in film in the production stage. I was already involved in film production prior to this job shadow, so I had a good idea of what to expect and what to look for. But even though I only oversaw Casey for a few hours, I learned a lot of the complexities of the camera that I previously was unaware of, knowledge which can come in handy when filming weddings or other important events. 

I don’t plan to be a director of photography as a career, but at least I know what it entails and therefore I can work with DP’s and camera operators better in future projects. And as I mentioned previously, it will come in handy when I do other hobbies.

In the future, I do plan to do more shadowing in different aspects of film and learn from their concepts to be universally aware of all the processes that come into making a film. If I learn what directors of photography go through, what sound editors go through, costume designers and make-up artists, I can be more flexible around the studio and know how to address problems even when they are not in my department or in my expertise. That is the main value that I take from this assignment and hopefully I’ll be able to continue it with other film positions.
