The Growth of Slavery in the 17th Century
	As the first European colonists came to settle into Virginia, they had to find a source of income that would be beneficial and prosperous to the colony. Their first means of making money were the plantations of the tobacco industry. As a result, hiring indentured servants became crucial in the 1600s,	AA until a couple years later the plantation owners realized that slaves were the most profitable source for their labor. Slavery became a necessity for plantation owners, for African American slaves were destined to work through the entirety of their life. However, they experienced horrible living conditions and were whipped and beaten if they became lethargic in their work. As the growing labor of slaves expanded in the 17th century in Virginia, the slave owners acquired more power and freedom to treat their slaves as they pleased.
	Indentured servitude was the first source of labor in the 1600s, for it was very inexpensive. They worked for 4 or 7 years depending on what their contract would say, and at the end of their completed work they would receive a part of land (Class Lecture). Plantation owners did recognize indentured servants as human beings, and although indentured servants were poor white men, there was no distinction between race or rights in their relationships. Their attitudes remained neutral although they were part of different social classes. They were granted their basic human rights meaning that if the plantation owners decided they did not want to pay them back or give them back their piece of land, then the indentured servants had every right to sue the plantation owners (Friday Discussion). This type of freedom for indentured servants was a freedom that slaves never were a part of in the 17th century. These human rights played a significant role in the lives of plantation owners because as they became wealthier with the profits of the sales of tobacco, a new search for labor that gave power to the plantation owners came roaring into Virginia.
	Money driven plantation owners then began to increase the importation of slaves from Africa to Virginia. It was very expensive to buy slaves, but the thriving profits from tobacco made it affordable enough; in the long run, slaves were a cheaper source of labor since they were kept for life along with any kids they had whom also served as slaves (Class Lecture). Choosing slaves over indentured servants gave plantation owners substantial power to have control over their own labor. Not only were slaves laborers, but they were also viewed as property. As tobacco industries began to be very profitable, the number of slaves skyrocketed up to the point where there were more slaves than white people living in Virginia (Class Lecture). This increase of the population of African slaves, however posed a threat in the lives of plantation owners, so they had to find different ways to increment their power in Virginia.
	Because of the increase of African slaves in Virginia, plantation owners had to seek a method in which they would gain more authority over slaves, so that there wouldn’t be any disorder within the colony. Numerous laws were enacted to prevent slaves from running away; there were laws that intimidated slaves so that they would not rebel against their masters. For instance, Act 1 of October 1669 stated that if any negroe slave resists to the authority of his or her master and in the process dies, then it’s not accounted as a felony (Virginia Laws). The life of a slave could be taken away by just defying their master, and since slave owners wouldn’t be imprisoned for killing a slave, it made it more appropriate for a slave owner to have the freedom to murder an innocent human being without being charged. Not only did slave owners make these laws but they also attained the freedom to control and defend themselves against slaves. Virginia’s laws were also modified to ensure proper protection. For example, in 1680, it was okay for any person to kill a runaway slave, however in 1691 whoever killed another planation owner’s runaway slave, the slave owner was to be compensated four thousand pounds of tobacco in return (Virginia Laws). Not only did plantation owners acquire protection under these laws, but they also were rewarded with tobacco if someone killed their slave. Plantation owners were indifferent towards the lives of slaves; they were only absorbed in the idea that wealth and power grants them excessive freedom in Virginia.
	The growth of slavery in Virginia led to a divided social construct that became a racialized society; in effect, it empowered slave owners mentally, and led to their increase of freedom on how they chose to treat and restrict their slaves. It incremented their power and made it acceptable to exploit their slaves. The law created in September of 1630, explained how an indentured servant was whipped for having sex with a negroe slave which was considered a shameful act (Virginia Laws).  The laws allowed plantation owners to take matter into their own hands and prevent the intermixture of whites and slaves, which became an advantage toward plantation owners. They had the freedom to treat slaves inhumanely without being accused of committing harsh punishments towards slaves because it was okay and right to do so according to the laws. Slaves were not seen as human beings so what did it matter if plantation owners made their slaves suffer.
	Money and power were the main reasons plantation owners relied so much on slavery. Slavery became the most prominent and most adequate way for plantation owners to gain freedom whether it was the freedom to treat slaves like savages and oppress them, or the freedom to write laws that benefited plantation owners to their own interest. The increase of slavery in the 1600s made slaves less prone to freedom, but shifted total freedom towards the plantation owners.
