Common Arguments of Independence
	Thomas Paine says “that nothing can settle our affairs so expeditiously as an open and determined declaration for independence.”[footnoteRef:0] This is in relation to the four main points he builds upon as to why the colonies should break away from Great Britain and declare their own independence. Paine counters the opinions of those who think war for independence would be a mistake in many ingenious ways as well, building on his points. Quarrels between the nations, unreasonable assistance, constant rebellion and manifestos of the negative. These are the points that Thomas Paine has developed to support his mission for self sustaining colonies. [0:  Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 107.] 

	Paine’s first point builds on disputes between colonies and Great Britain whenever there are disagreements with them. The first main quarrel, origin and design of government had already raised many major disputes between the idea of a king ruling over the nation, rather than structured legal systems. Paine recites that “Government, like dress, is the badge of lost innocence; the palaces of kings are built on the ruins of the bowers of paradise.” He relates the idea of a king ruling everyone to a false sense of a utopia, with promises that cannot be kept and laws leaning to one person’s preferences. He thinks that the law may be a necessary evil, something that will obey to everyone equally and keep things fair. His support leads to the constitution of England, claiming it to be “so exceedingly complex that the nation may suffer for years together without being able to discover in which part the fault lies, some will say in one and some will say in another…”[footnoteRef:1]. His main complaint with Britain is that their government will continue to be one sided and that not everyone will be treated equal, especially from newly establish colonies. [1:  Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 77.] 

	Paine’s second point brings up such problems as unreasonable assistance between developments. This in simpler terms means that he thinks France or Spain will not give them any aid in strengthening bonds between America and Britain because they have little to no gain from doing it. He states that “those powers would be sufferers by the consequences”[footnoteRef:2], meaning that they would be less wealthy and in threat of a defeat if war arose between the nations. [2:  Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 107.] 

	The third point in Common Sense and possibly the most common argument among them is a rebellion of the public in disagreeance joining together to become dependent. “..we must, in the eye of foreign nations, be considered rebels.”[footnoteRef:3] says Paine, indicating that grouping together would cause rebellion because of disapproval of a colony or group of them. This is a fair arguing point as in the book because in Paine’s early life his association with the French Revolution and rumors of him being a drunk made his words unpopular, and then ignored along with many other revolutionaries. [3:   Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 107.] 

	The fourth and final main point Paine makes in his pamphlet is on the development of a manifesto. A manifesto is a declaration of policy and aims used to change the way people view politics in nations. He suggests that if a manifesto were to be published of all the cruel hardships and poor conditions of life and get to foreign nations, it would only lead to further conflicts with those nations. Saying “the trade of America goes to ruin, because of her connection with Britain”[footnoteRef:4] should any war break out between the two and Europe. [4:   Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 90.] 

	However, many colonists and political leaders have had differing opinions on Independence from Thomas Paine. Notable figures such as John Adams. He was one of the many patriots of America who were angered by Paine’s words, and as such sought to share his argument in his pamphlet Thoughts on Government. Adams among other political leaders at the time were afraid that Paine’s words might spark a revolution in America, and needed to support their own governmental ideals with responses that would provide the people of the nation with a fair understanding of it, saying that “They imagined with horror the sort of bloody internal violence and class conflict that would threaten the property, interests, and persons of the wealthiest of Americans.”[footnoteRef:5] [5:  Thomas Paine, Common Sense and Related Writings ed. Boston, 44.] 

	In conclusion, 
Thomas Paine tells the public that nothing else will settle our problems better than independence. He explains in great detail using four main points to build upon; quarrels, assistance, rebellion and manifestos. He relates his problems with Britain’s king structured government, with the next on Europe assisting Britain and America in strengthening their bonds with nothing to gain. His last two points deal with rebellions stemming from public disagreeance of Britain’s ideals, and trade as well as association with other foreign nations dying out from word of how awful the conditions are when dependent on Britain.
