Are They Conscious
	Carl Safina’s TED talk What are Animals Thinking and Feeling? centers on animal’s sense of thought and feelings, and the relationship between human’s thoughts and emotions to animal’s thoughts and emotions. Safina acknowledges many different animals and how they act in such a way that reveals a complex mind at work; a complex mind that thinks, feels, and understands. He alludes to the fact that animals are indeed, conscious. He explains consciousness as “simply the thing that feels like something. If you see, if you hear, if you feel, if you're aware of anything, you are conscious, and they are conscious” (Safina 07:15-07:25). Safina presents his argument in an effective way by sharing his experiences with animals exhibiting consciousness, answering his critics, as well as using many examples of a variety of animals showing consciousness, and by creating an interest and connection in this idea with his audience. This talk is directed to the general public, because by using this argument of animals’ consciousness, Safina is able to end his talk with the reasoning that these animals deserve to be protected.
	The first thing Carl Safina starts off with is an example of his own dog showing signs of consciousness. He makes it seems obvious that “something’s going on” (Safina 00:30-00:40). By using this example of his own relationship with his own dog, Safina is able to establish his credibility on the subject right away; even more so that it is a relatable example that many of the audience members may have as well. Due to the fact that owning a dog or having a connection with a pet is a relatable example, it calls the audience to question the situation from the point of view that Safina is trying to create. To further extend Safina’s credibility, he mentions the time he spent observing a wolf pack in Yellowstone National Park. By describing his time in Yellowstone in detail, observing the wolf pack closely then by relating their actions to human behaviors and relationships, it is made evident that Safina understands the signs of awareness and consciousness in animals. Though Safina mentions the scientific book he has written on the subject, the most important thing Safina does to firmly establish his credibility is acknowledging his critics. He answers a reporter who questions his theory of animals thinking a feeling with an explanation of his dog asking for a belly rub, saying “She has thought and she has felt, and it's really not more complicated than that” (Safina 09:55-10:47).This acknowledgement shows that Safina is aware of what others may think, but is also able to give them a strong reason as to why he correct. 
	The majority of Safina’s argument stems from his copious examples of animals exhibiting consciousness. These examples are not confined to one species; they are vastly spread across the board in terms of diversity. Safina uses his own dog, killer whales, and elephants; each completely different animals, yet connected by their ability of awareness. By giving such examples Safina is able to relate back to human characteristics and behaviors saying “we have the same imperatives: take care of our babies, find food, try to stay alive… We are kin under the skin” (06:19-06:37). Through using this method of connection Safina is able to logically argue his belief that animals are indeed conscious. Safina is also using this connection process by presenting a slide show of pictures as he talks. This gives the audience a visual connection to the words Safina is saying, therefore creating a stronger understanding of the argument. The slide show also allows Safina to create a pace in his argument, keeping the audience in tune to what he is saying, while also being able to relate aspects of his talk together at the same time.  This logical outline of different examples connecting together, along with visual markers heightens Safina’s argument. 
	Safina is able spark an interest in his topic by using humor early in the talk. He makes a variety of jokes, for instance showing the comparison between the sizes of a chimps’ and humans’ brains saying “it's a good thing ours is bigger, because we're also really insecure” (Safina 04:16-04:25). By causing the audience to laugh fairly early in the talk Safina is able to keep the audience interested, listening for the next witty comment such as when explaining contagious fear as a form of empathy. He says “if your companions suddenly startle and fly away, it does not work very well for you to say, "Jeez, I wonder why everybody just left"” (Safina 07:49-08:00). In turn the audience is closely listening to his argument of how animals are conscious, not just his funny side remarks. Safina uses this method sporadically throughout the talk for this same purpose; to keep the audience engaged and interested in what he has to say. To really appeal to the audience’s emotions, he uses heart-tugging examples, specifically the example of the albatrosses. He paints a picture of hard working parents, carrying food across many miles for their baby chick, only to come home to a garbage filled environment. The mother and father are unknowingly carrying plastic ridden food that will potentially kill the baby chick (Safina 17:18-18:12). To enhance this emotion evoking example he incorporates the images from the slide show, which has a stronger impact than words alone. With the combination of humor, heart-tugging examples, and visual aids, Safina is able to draw the audience in and establish belief for his argument.
	Ultimately Safina’s talk is to show the public that animals are conscious in order to argue for their conservation. By creating a connection between humans and animals, Safina is trying to give reason as to why humans should be responsible for the protection of species. Using his experience with the subject, examples of a variety of animals, and ability to pull at the heartstrings of the audience, Safina creates a stronger argument that animals are in fact conscious. 













Works Cited
Safina, Carl. “What are animals thinking and feeling?” TED Ideas worth spreading,
https://www.ted.com/talks/carl_safina_what_are_animals_thinking_and_feeling/transcript. Accessed 9 September 2017.
