Not everyone will act the same all the time, therefore you will experience different attitudes from everyone. Just because they act a certain way toward you one day does not show how they feel about you as a whole. In the novel “Purple Hibiscus” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Eugene is portrayed as one thing but is genuinely the opposite.  Toward his family Eugene is harsh, genuine, and stressful. 
	Eugene is hard on his family because he wants them to make good decisions so he comes off a little violent when doing this. Everybody has their days but in this case the things that he may do and or say come out and or show differently from what he actually means. For example, when Jaja did not want to go to communion he really came off aggressive and violent but he really just wanted him to make the right decision by going. My mother has been this way with me before but the difference was, I knew how she meant it.
	Being genuine with your family is how most people are and Eugene is exactly like this but shows it differently from others. With being genuine it is not what you say, it's more so your feelings and actions. Somebody can show you that they genuinely care about you rather than showing you. For example, when Kambili came second to another classmate her father Eugene was upset with her but he honestly just wants the best for her.
	Stressing about family is usually because you care and Eugene does. There are many little things that Eugene does that really makes the audience get a feel for how he honestly feels about his family. No it is not good to stress but in this situation you really can't help it, all because you just care so much that you would do almost anything to make sure that they are happy and or just alright period. 
	As being the head of the household, I understand from seeing what my mom does and goes through that it can really have an impact on your attitude and how you go about things. Eugene in this case, is exactly like that. He tries so hard to make sure that everything is going good that he may come off as a violent but caring person and as weird as it sounds, it is very true and possible to happen.
