
Purple Hibiscus analysis Essay
In the novel” Purple Hibiscus “written by  Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Eugene (papa) is shown as a violent and abusive man towards his family, yet he is also presented as a man who loves his family. Eugene is displayed as a caring individual for the public, but with his high expectations for his family, he displays this “affection” through violent and abusive acts away from the view of the public eye. The author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie described “Papa liked order.”  Eugene writes meticulous schedules for his children, dictating how long they were able to study, sleep, pray or spend with the family.” In the novel Eugene is both belligerent and caring in his relationship with his family, displaying the complex dynamic of his role.  
Eugene is abusive and aggressive towards his two kids Kambili and Jaja. Eugene is controlling and wants everything done in a specific manner. His beliefs work in reinforcing his actions, because he feels as if he is obligated to turn violent if the kids fail to reach his high potentials. In one incident, Eugene “lashed out with his belt when he discovers Kambili eating cornflakes before Mass, he asked angrily “has the devil built a tent in my house?” Eugene’s behavior is an overreaction to his child’s hunger. It displays no sympathy to his daughter's actions and could have been handled in a different more humane manner. Kambali also stated an action done by Eugene. “He poured the hot water on my feet, slowly, as if he were conducting an experiment and wanted to see what would happen”. “After he burns his children's’ feet he comes to Kambali and says “Everything I do for you; I do for your own good”. This shows Eugene's shameless side of resentment towards his kids. Eugene is antagonistic and bellicose with his children through every aspect in their daily lives. The children are obligated to live a consistent and precise life style outlined by Eugene, which involves violent and physical assault which stems from his violent nature.
Beatrice Achike is known as a devoted wife and mother for her family. She is quiet and reticent. “She spoke the way a bird eats, in small amounts.” She doesn't say less but when she does it's spoken softly and kept short. Beatrice is also affected by the harmful abuse from her husband Eugene which leads to many issues between them. Beatrice was mistreated and assaulted brutally by Eugene. Beatrice has had numerous failed pregnancies, because consistently as she has been pregnant. “after another beating from Eugene, she miscarried and was taken to hospital. “ Eugene’s cruel behavior leads to Beatrice having a miscarriage which created a foundation of abuse and suffrage in the marriage.
In contrast with his violent behavior, Eugene is also described as a sincere man. Eugenes wife Beatrice Achike describes him as a caring person. He is known as a wealthy person who supports his friends and relatives through his money and also contributes to charities and church. When speaking with her sister in law Ifeoma, Beatrice describes Eugene as “a good man – she can see his good intentions and excuses his behavior through stress.” Eugene shows his kids affection and love through body language.” He shows his love and attachment to his children: “I have never been without you two for more than a day” and cries.” Eugene feels emotionally affixed to his kids due to their daily surroundings in the house. He is used to the fact of his kids always being around him therefore it is hard for Eugene to say goodbye to his children. The novel shows Eugene's emotions and sensitivity as well as his generosity.
In the novel ‘Purple Hibiscus” Eugene is shown as both a violent, and a caring man amongst his family members. These two emotions are vastly different through many channels. He switched his emotions through his Mentality. He often switches his role from violent to affectionate during multiple circumstances. Eugene’s high expectations lead to high standards which affected the family through brutality and cruelty. The expectations created many problems which the whole family has to suffer through. The high expectations not only promote violence but it also created a foundation of hatred toward Eugene.

Citations 
Johns, Llewellyn. Purple hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: notes. CAE Book Groups, 2007.
