
High School Seniors aren’t Ready for College
High school doesn’t prepare incoming college students for writing academically at college levels like its suppose to. In an article titled “High School Kids aren’t College Ready” by Lauren Camera she says “…only 37 percent of incoming freshman feel prepared for college reading and writing…”.  That means 62 percent of college students aren’t ready for college level English. Students are expected to take college English and preform college level work without being properly prepared for college English. They are expected to strive off high school English classes that are nothing compared to college English, therefore causing unnecessary difficulty. This difficulty shouldn’t even exist. To prevent this, students need to write more in high school and give up on using the five paragraph essay all together. The five paragraph essay is nothing compared to college essays expected from your professors, and even in some cases not allowed in college English courses. Although some scholars stand by the five paragraph essay and continue to teach it, and they might argue that the five paragraph essay is just a way to familiarize students with writing essays in general, and that students are supposed to build on top of the method, but in all actuality, it prevents writing at college level standards which is causing a bridged gap in students writing. This bridged gap is preventing students from having a complete understanding of writing at higher levels. The gap between high school English and college English doesn’t have to stay so parallel, it can be altered in a way to benefit students when making the transition into college writing. 
One of the reasons why the five paragraph essay shouldn’t be used in high school English is because it’s not used in college English writing at all. Most professors don’t even accept the five paragraph essay. So why is it still being taught to seniors going off to college?  This is an important question because even though the five-paragraph essays that high school teachers expect from their students are affective to complete their work and gain a decent grade, the concept, however, is what is creating the severe gap when transitioning from high school English into college English. The classic “five paragraphed essays” creates a bare minimum, limiting a student’s capacity to expand from a basic style of writing. This minimum high school students strive for is confining them into a box that isn’t allowing them to expand as writers. Their writing is never developed beyond the box of the five paragraph essay. This is limiting students from reaching their full potential. With a minimum of five paragraphs, students do just what they have to do to simply to gain an average grade for meeting the requirements of only a MLA formatted paper containing decent amount of words, with no regards of grammar, rewriting, or editing. In college you need to be able to rhetorically analyze an article which isn’t even taught in high school. Being able to rhetorically analyze a something allows you to completely understand what you’ve read, and ae writing. High school fails to teach this to students. Also in high school writing, word count wasn’t even as important as it is in college. In contrast, a college English course is very developed and advance in its styles of writing, grammar usage, word count, and the evidence being cited in essays, which is everything that a high school teacher over looks. In high school kids drop a random quote and repeat that same piece of evidence in five different ways and call that a paragraph. College writing expects more development and depth for its paragraphs, and it’s especially more than just four sentences. I do understand there is always a little gap when moving up in education, but the gap isn’t supposed to be as large as it is. This is what can make a difference in the confusion and stress being brought over freshman college students when entering college, if only they knew what they were going to face.
 In an article titled “Eliminating the perception that “High school English doesn’t teach you anything” by D.R. Ransdell and Gregory Glau conducted surveys on Arizona freshman from 20 different schools about their high school English classes and what they wished they would’ve known before entering a college English course. One of the questions they asked was what would you inform your old English teachers to teach their current students to prepare them for college English, what would you have needed to know before coming into college English? The surveyed student’s answers varied but the results revealed they wished their high school English teachers had prepared them for the difficulty of college English courses before entering a college. Also, a large amount of the responses was to teach outside the five paragraph essays, and to make them write essays in high school as it would be written in college. On the students’ free responses D.R. Randell and Glau found out the five paragraph essay wasn’t allowed in their college composition courses. Most students complained how hard it was to get the five paragraph method out of their heads because it was the only essay teachers taught, so that’s all they really know how to write. Now it was hard for them to develop their own style or writing because they’ve been writing in the same way for so long. Since the only essay taught to high school students is the five paragraph essay students don’t want the essay method to be taught because it doesn’t exist in college. The students they surveyed wanted harder essays and college level assignments. Students part of the survey who said they wrote a lot had better test scores than those who didn’t write as mush. The students who wrote more said although they complained about the amount of writing they did during their senior year it really helped them freshman year of college. Most of those surveyed weren’t lucky enough to write a lot of papers.  So, a lot of students were even concerned that their high school English class didn’t prepare them for anything they were about to face in college writing. (D.R. Randell & Glau). 
Opponents would argue that the five paragraph essay was only taught to introduce you into writing essays and then gradually build upon the template the five paragraph essay forms for you, not to base all their writing on. Robert Sheppard is one of the opponents who stand by the by teaching the five paragraph essay and said he would even continue to teach the five paragraph method to his students. In Sheppard’s article “In Defense of the 5 Paragraph” he talks about why the five paragraph essay is valuable. He exclaims that the five paragraph essay need to be taught first so students can build on top of it as they learn. He compared the essay method to training wheels, once you get comfortable you take off training wheels. He says the five paragraph is the beginning, then comes, longer composition, and then writing with purpose. He especially makes the point that the essay method doesn’t confine students into this format is just a way to become familiar with essay writing. The method is only to teach them the fundamental components that go into an essay. (Sheppard) 
Although Sheppard stands by the five paragraph essay it’s not what’s best for high school seniors. Continuing to teach the five paragraph essay all the way up to senior year is basically leaving the training wheels on students bikes while they try to catch up to the big kids in college.  I do agree that it’s supposed to be built on and used as a template when initially learning how to write, but it’s not to be used for every piece of writing students write in high school. The five-paragraph essay is supposed to be used to train students on how to write, and after students have the format down they’re supposed to teach student how to build on top of it so by the end of senior year students are writing developed papers, but high school English teachers fail to do so. Also without teaching student’s multiple essays and only teaching the five paragraph essay isn’t that the same as confining them into one format? Once they learn the components of an essay why aren’t they taught to write outside the format and to write in a higher level that would be accepted by college professor? What is stopping teachers from teaching outside the five-paragraph essay? Without teaching outside the five paragraph essay we are in fact limiting students potential and making college English more difficult than it should be. Luckily there is a way to prevent this problem from continuing and it’s up to the collaboration of both high school and college teachers. 
Fortunately, there are multiple solutions to this obstacle college freshman are facing when completing college standard essays. The solution lays simply in the hands of our teachers, and in the hands of technology. If teachers would alter the way they taught writing, it could improve the gap drastically. In an article, written by Kerri Smith, called “The Five-Paragraph Essay” Smith educates her readers on the general ideas that many high school teachers overlook in their teachings that are desperately vital to college papers. In specific, Smith uses her surveyed researched to accurately acknowledge the writing topics and strategies that their professors already expected them to have known as college freshman, those same things in that were in fact brushed over in high school, those topics and strategies are listed as followed; how writing assignments were geared, five paragraph essays, the quantity and difficulty of writing assignments, rewriting, multiple drafts, and revision, and grading procedures. The author also says teachers need to work on showing students how to structure their essays and prepare them for writing big papers by giving as much (or as little) time as a college professor would. Introduce the style of writing used in college. She says how on average that high school seniors write three papers a year. That’s three papers that are about five paragraphs while in college English you write more essays, with triple the word count, and more than five paragraphs. Therefore, teachers need to change the way they’re teaching high school English. With the number of students feeling unprepared, the way teachers are teaching essays, and how much more is expected of students in college, this is a problem that needs to be fixed.
 These are just some ways to improve writing in college freshman. (Smith) Another solution to help bridge the gap between high school English and college English would be technology.  If teachers video chatted it would allow high school teachers and college teachers to teach side by side so high school students could get advice from a college professor what they need to improve on or what they would be looking for in their papers in college. In an Article titled “How Skype Has Changed the Way We Communicate” by Mark Gwilliam talks about the benefits video chat can have. He explains how skype is a free app that has various options of communication like text, graphics, sounds, and video.  Skype has changed the way we communicate in three major ways. One being it causes people to retain more information. by hearing and seeing the information in front of you it’s easier, and helps remember the information more than just one sense alone. Secondly, anyone involved in a conference call feels much more empowered. Their thoughts are being shared with multiple people at a time, and can receive instant feedback on thoughts and ideas. This feature helps members of the video call want to engage more, suggest things, and provide more commentary. Lastly, you can use it anywhere, at any time. It is more convenient for everyone because you can use it to communicate from great distances while getting the visuals you need. (Gwilliam)  
If a high school teacher and a college professor would alternate between a high school English class its guaranteed to cause some confusion and miscommunication between teachers and students. If high school students were to read emails from professors, it’s not the same as hearing it from the professor face to face.  Therefore, having both teachers in a room via video chat can be beneficial to students. It is difficult to have teachers both together in person due to schedules and locations, but thankfully video chat works at any time and from almost anywhere. Teachers would be able to use video chat in lectures while teaching side by so high school students get side high school students would be able to see how a professor would grade papers. High school students would more likely be able to see what is lacking in their writing and what they need to improve on. They’ll be able to receive advice from both teachers learning how to really develop writing and write lengthy, and developed essays. Teaching this way allows students to be the best they can in writing and more than likely going to make the transition into college English easier and less of a burden. Changing the way, they teach could also benefit college professors. Incoming freshman would have more of an idea of what’s going on in college writing then they do now, which would prevent professors from deprograming students out of the five paragraph essay out of their minds. Not only would change help students, but also help professors not have to back track and teaching students what they should have learned their senior year. The five paragraph essay is a huge problem that needs to be stopped and fixed by our high school teachers.
All in all, more and more high school seniors are coming into college with no real knowledge of what college English is going to have in store for them. As you can see, the gap between high school and college English is a problem that needs to be solved. There are multiple ways to close this gap and allow entering college English less of a shock. Making the transition into college with the five paragraph essay drilled into your head is not how students need to enter college English. The five paragraph essay is drilled into our heads from the beginning of freshman year until we practically graduate, but thankfully, teachers can alter lessons by changing how they teach, and with the help of technology students can have lessons drawn up from both a high school teacher and a college professor. These solutions benefit both the students and teachers involved. Despite what opponents had to say about the five paragraph essay it is clearly not the best option for incoming college freshman continuing a higher education.  Overall, with some lesson changes and collaborative work students can be more prepared for a college level English class without having to worry about whether they’re ready for it. 





















Camera, Lauren. “High School Kids Aren't College Ready.” U.S. News & World Report, U.S.    News & World Report, 27 Apr. 2016, www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-04-27/high-school-seniors-arent-college-ready-naep-data-show.
Gwilliam, Mark. “How SKYPE Has Changed the Way We Communicate by Mark Gwilliam.” By Mark Gwilliam, www.evancarmichael.com/library/mark-gwilliam/How-SKYPE-has-changed-the-way-we-communicate.html.
Ransdell, D. R., and Gregory R. Glau. “Articulation and Student Voices: Eliminating the Perception That ‘High School English Doesn't Teach You Nothing.’” The English Journal, vol. 85, no. 1, 1996, pp. 17–21. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/821115.
Sheppard, Robert. “In Defense of the 5-Paragraph Essay.” TESOL , tesol.org/in-defense-of-the-     5-paragraph-essay/.
Smith Kerri “The Five Paragraph Essay” Weekend Edition. National Public Radio. 7 May 2005. 20 Sept. 2005 .
