Classrooms Sizes and Student Learning
STAR exams, class studies, and other forms of research have examined students in the classrooms. For many years, faculty have followed the guidelines of school districts concerning the methods of education for students in K through 12. Parents or family have the option to enroll their students in a private school, whereas other families might consider a public school. Further on as students attend college, classrooms become heavily impacted. Those who succeed versus those who don’t identify a problem in the classrooms. This has lead researches to inquire if there is a correlation between student learning and classroom size. These findings will lead to a conclusion which might need to be reformed to maximize student learning in the classroom. In all, class size reductions improve grades, relationships with professors and help keep students motivated in college.
Education for students begins in our elementary and high schools. It seems to be a false idea that classroom sizes benefit those who struggle academically. Much research, experimenting with these young students, has proven that students with class size reductions who do well, do so because of prior knowledge. In the research conducted by Spyros Konstantopoulos he concludes that, " The findings also indicated that, although all types of students benefited from being in small classes, reductions in class size did not reduce the achievement gap between low and high achievers." These findings, in around 11,000 school students, concluded that small classroom sizes benefitted everyone but the gap between most students was not solved. Families believe that having their kids in a small classroom setting will help their children succeed academically. While this is true, parents or guardians should not expect that a child's low level in education should be solved by enrolling them in smaller classrooms. 
A high school student is expected to exceed in class size reductions. Having class size reductions help advance students since their first year of college. There are studies that prove that having too small of a class will disrupt a student's learning. In an article by Vanessa Wyss, Robert Tai and Philip Sadler, found that high school students do not excel more than their peers because of incremental class size reductions. High school students who were enrolled in classes of ten or fewer were not achieving higher grades in college than those students who were in class sizes of 25 or fewer. It is shown that students in smaller groups can be negatively impacted because they are not able to speak with many other students and share ideas. This article also gave a two-study analysis to prove the negative effects of class size reductions. As noted by Wyss, Tai and Sadler, their studies included, "...a cross-tabulation of 6 different class sizes and the frequencies of teacher practices reported by students. The second analysis includes a multiple linear regression of class size and student achievement." The studies of these six different class sizes were given to various students in different states. The results were the same for all of them, because class size reductions benefited all the student's, except when classes became smaller than ten students. The results later proved that these same students, who later attended college, did not have a greater achievement than those who were in larger classes. It might be misleading to believe that smaller classrooms close the gap between low and high achievers. 
 Having class size reductions can help those who are economically disadvantaged. The growing student population will need a form of education that can allow for all to receive a positive college education. A great college education is one where the student may excel in the classroom. In fact, an article by Steven Lehrer argued the importance of class size reductions. In order to have high performance in the classroom, students must experience an interactive environment. This means that students and faculty must work closely when working on projects or assignments. Studies in this article proved that small study groups are the reason students achieved better grades. Test scores increased as students had the ability to ask questions and a more personal relationship with their professors. Besides the fact that students have the opportunity to keep a closer relationship with professors and boost their self-confidence to achieve any job they wish to pursue, this would solve an additional problem; low education in the school systems of minority and economically disadvantaged students. However, some may argue that it is the job of the adult individual to seek help during office hours or in class. Although everyone in college is an individual, studies prove that when learning, having a professor or teacher at your side, can make the process faster and efficient.  In this article Lehrer addresses another argument which states that, "expenses should not be given priority over the issues of poor education". If it is necessary to spend more for classrooms and teaching aid, then legislation should be approved. Lehrer supported his argument by demonstrating how conducted examinations of different groups of students in classrooms proved how class size reductions helped improve grades. He saw the need students faced when found in big classroom sizes. The study proved how students from various backgrounds and ethnicities saw high results in their grades. In this study, Lehrer makes this a process to solve the problem in education dealing with poor learning to every student, especially those in poverty. This evidence suggested that students cannot perform highly when there is no room for a deep relationship between a student and a professor. This relationship happens when the student can ask questions without the fear of doing so in a big classroom or auditorium.
Meeting the needs of students by addressing the problems in dropout rates and impacted classrooms in public school's helps keep a positive graduation rate. Gerardo Moreno and Francisco Gaytán's article specifically argued the importance of meeting the needs in school for the diverse Latino community. This was one group out of many who were studied as minorities. The main focus was on establishing a positive academic climate to help lower the dropout rate for first generation Latinos. This ethnic group in this article is used to describe how a small and understanding group of people can make a change in the degree of dropout rates. The main need is for instructors to develop foundational understandings of the Latino culture. Students will have a less difficult time in a new culture if theirs is not ignored and if they are taught using the same learning methods as in their country of origin. Having instructors help its students by giving them the tools they need to know about Latino culture, is proven to help lower the dropout rate and increase graduation rate. 
Gerardo Moreno and Francisco Gaytán supported their argument by demonstrating how several investigations have concluded that classrooms may lead to negative school experiences. These investigators found that higher levels of dropout rates were present when more students were put in larger classrooms. The smaller classrooms proved that students did better because of the higher grades. This especially affected those in minority groups, boosting their self-esteem.  In Patricia Talbert's article, she supports her arguments by conducting reviews on student enrollment and performance in two- and four- year degree programs in the state of Minnesota for higher education. She found that students had one reason in common for not graduating the on time, which was class overflow. The struggle to secure a seat in a classroom was not because the students waited until the last minute or were in some way irresponsible, but instead, because enough classrooms and staff are not meeting the demand of students. Students want a learning environment in order to pursue their individual educational goals, which is the reason they are paying to get a college degree. Though some critiques may argue that having large lecture halls are good for incoming freshmen because they are their classes of general education, this is an invalid argument, because students must still pass the course with good grades and a good knowledge of the material which can't be done if classrooms lead to negative school experiences.  
In another source by the studies of higher education from David Putwain and 
Paul Mitchell Sander, sought that many demographic variables such as—gender, student poverty, ethnicity, and language spoken at home—were related to lower student gains. There is a correlation between student achievement in the classroom and class size, which then relates to why some students cannot excel in school because of class size. Nonetheless, when controlling these variables, students in reduced size classes made small but positive gains in student achievement. But, the researchers acknowledged, other factors which could have contributed to these gains. Major changes in California’s public education system took place in a city named Tandem. The first phase of the program, included new requirements for teacher preparation, revisions to bilingual education, new curriculum frame works and materials, new statewide tests, and a new performance accountability system—none of which were taken into account by this study or any of which could have contributed to the achievement gains for students.
A source by Project STAR data deals with the long-term effects of reading and mathematics achievement for minority students who participated in small classes. When this original experiment concluded, minority students in small classes showed greater gains in reading and mathematics achievement than white students in small classes. In this study, the researchers found that students maintained these gains, to some extent, for up to five years until the eighth grade. Both white and minority students had statistically significant higher grades in reading and mathematics than students in large classrooms. Minority students who participated in small classes for four years had higher reading achievement scores than white students who were in the small classes for the same amount of time. Furthermore, this will help teachers understand and have more time to individualize their feedback, ensuring that each student understands the material, gets the help they need, and is reaching his or her potential in the classroom.
These articles are very relevant to today's college system's. Graduation retention rates seem to stay high. A college student should not worry about not graduating on time because of an impacted school campus which may their career goal in jeopardy. Meeting the needs of students in the classrooms benefit both the student and the campus. Money will be an issue but having fundraisers and sponsors for a time can help to ultimately build various classrooms. Studies have shown how important it is to build smaller classrooms than auditoriums. For example, in the article by Gerardo Moreno and Francisco Gaytán, they mention how some groups may be affected, "Research has indicated a failure to meet the diverse needs of Latino students". Those who find themselves more vulnerable will suffer greater disadvantages. Student's, may become vulnerable when teachers in classrooms cannot give them all attention or cannot even enroll because of the impact of students who have priority over the rest. In Patricia Talbert's article, she addresses how the problem is only affecting the students by stating how, "Graduation rates have continued to decline over the last decade". It's easy to notice how much help having a professor speak closer in a classroom helps improve my grade. No student should have to be left out a classroom because it was full but instead by merit. 
 The idea that parents and politicians alike prefer smaller class size reductions is seen statistically. At least 40 states have carried out some kind of class-size reduction in the past 15 years and the legislature in Washington has pledged to reduce average class sizes in kindergarten through third grade to 17 students by the fall of 2017. But despite more than four decades of research in the U.S. and abroad, the effects of this simple idea about how to raise student achievement has been hard to determine, leading to academic debate over its value. Researchers generally agree that lower class sizes, at least in the earliest years of a child's education, are linked to positive educational benefits such as better test scores, fewer dropouts and higher graduation rates, especially for disadvantaged children. They disagree, however, on whether those benefits outweigh the costs which would cost nearly $5 billion through 2019. This would become a highly politicized debate which becomes more difficult when money is difficult to spend. In recent years, researchers have been trying to figure out why smaller class size works, how it works and who benefits most. Today, research shows the public how having class size reductions can be beneficial to all students. 
Understanding students in a small classroom is found to be beneficial. The instructor can better understand most of their student's way of learning, and, therefore, help them become comfortable receiving educational support. Patricia Talbert's article on the other end, argued that the solution for higher education needs to come from the school through a large donation or government help. This would help build more classrooms which would help the staff become more engaged with the smaller group of college students. In the data collected, it was seen that special attention needed to be given to minority groups and first-generation students. These groups are specifically named because they make up the biggest number of students affected by large classrooms. Since these students might come from a different background, it cannot be expected that they will be as successful as other students might. This is the reason they lack higher education. The disadvantage to not know the same advice told by a parent or family member would make it easier for the student to shy away from asking questions in a place like an auditorium. Investing in smaller lecture rooms where everyone can speak without the need of a microphone or shouting is less staged and more comfortable for the majority of students. This would reduce the number of students confused or stressed in huge lectures.
The cost of education limits the school system from addressing problems in education. Building more classrooms with more instructors will be expensive but worth giving students more opportunities to be involved and interact while more staff are being hired. There is a problem in our public-school education system. The lack of instructors to access questions or concerns most students have in the classroom is a great problem. Even though professors and students have the ability to communicate through emails, studies show how meeting in small groups with the instructor, will help students maintain a greater grade point average. The solution to most of the trouble seems to be in school funds because adding classrooms and professors will be costly. However, that is not an easy solution when thinking to change some of the public-school systems. Some of these systems involve the way professors have been teaching their regular classes over the past several years. This initiative, though costly, will help any student achieve higher education. Class size reductions improve grades, relationships with professors and help keep students motivated in college.  







Works Cited  
Harfitt, Gary James and Amy B. M. Tsui. "An Examination of Class Size Reduction on Teaching hhhhhand Learning Processes: A Theoretical Perspective." British Educational Research Journal, hhhhhvol. 41, no. 5, Oct. 2015, pp. 845-865. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/berj.3165.  
Konstantopoulos, Spyros. "Do Small Classes Reduce the Achievement Gap between Low and hhhhhHigh Achievers? Evidence from Project STAR." Elementary School Journal, vol. 108, no. hhhhh4, Mar. 2008, pp. 275-291. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?hhhhhdirect=true&db=asn&AN=31441681&site=ehost-live.  
Moreno, Gerardo and Francisco X. Gaytán. "Focus on Latino Learners: Developing a pppppFoundational Understanding of Latino Cultures to Cultivate Student Success." Preventing pppppSchool Failure, vol. 57, no. 1, Jan. 2013, pp. 7-16. EBSCOhost, pppppdoi:10.1080/1045988X.2013.731271.  
Putwain, David W. and Paul Sander. "Does the Confidence of First-Year Undergraduate Students hhhhhChange over Time According to Achievement Goal Profile?." Studies in Higher hhhhhEducation, vol. 41, no. 2, Feb. 2016, pp. 381-398. EBSCOhost, hhhhhdoi:10.1080/03075079.2014.934803. 
Talbert, Patricia Y. "Strategies to Increase Enrollment, Retention, and Graduation Rates." hhhhhJournal of Developmental Education, vol. 36, no. 1, Fall2012, pp. 22-36. EBSCOhost, hhhhhsearch.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=85225579&site=ehost-live.   
Weili, Ding and Steven F. Lehrer. "Experimental Estimates of the Impacts of Class Size on Test hhhhhScores: Robustness and Heterogeneity." Education Economics, vol. 19, no. 3, July2011, hhhhhpp.229-252. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/09645292.2011.589142.  
Wyss, Vanessa L., et al. "High School Class-Size and College Performance in Science." High hhhhhSchool Journal, vol. 90, no. 3, Feb/Mar2007, pp. 45-53. EBSCOhost, hhhhhsearch.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=24253536&site=ehost-live.
