Maya Angelou: An Eloquent Author
Maya Angelou is considered to be an amazing author and person by numerous people. A quote by Oprah Winfrey paints a picture of the type of woman Maya Angelou is, “ In all the days of my life, I never met a woman who was more completely herself then Maya Angelou...Her life is a gift to us all” (Gillespie 1-3). Maya Angelou was a public figure as an author, actor, screenwriter, public speaker, and poet. She originally came into the public’s eye as an author (Johnson para. 1). A great example of one of her famous books is Letter to My Daughter. In an excerpt from that book, Angelou explains where she grew up, how she learned to be charitable, how she became pregnant, and giving birth. Each of the four parts of the excerpt are used to teach the reader lessons for their very own lives (Angelou). In this excerpt from Letter to My Daughter, Maya Angelou successfully attains her purpose of teaching life lessons through the use of rhetorical devices, her attention to audience, her organization, and her word choice. 
One reason Maya Angelou is successful is how she writes with her audience in mind. She understands not all readers are going to be coming from the same backgrounds as her so in an effort to bridge the gap Angelou gives additional background information where she believes the reader might lack. An example of this is when she is explaining her hometown in Stamps, Arkansas. She goes into detail about the extent of the racism that she was forced to submit to and how she rarely saw white people  (Angelou pars. 4,6). Since no timeframe is given in her excerpt, there isn’t a way the reader would know about the author growing up in a racist town. Without that knowledge, the reader would probably not make the connection to Angelou’s purpose of the “Home” section of the excerpt. In that section Maya Angelou makes the point that home is a place inside rather than an actual place (Angelou para. 11). A reason she came to this conclusion was probably because of the racism in her hometown that caused her safety not to be in the town but in her own self. Without background information, the reader cannot fully connect the theme to Maya Angelou’s life. In Christopher W. Tindales’s article, “Rhetorical Argumentation and the Nature of Audience: Toward an Understanding of Audience—Issues in Argumentation”, Tindale explains an understanding of your audience is important in order to best reach them so that the author can successfully reach the audience (Tindale). A main point that he gives for bridging this gap from the author to the audience is, “ Specifically, before argumentation can begin, the ground needs to be prepared to enhance the possibility of receptivity”(Tindale 526-527). Now Maya Angelou’s piece isn’t argumentative but it does hold a rhetorical purpose to inform and teach her readers. Since she still is attempting to convey to an audience, Angelou needs to give background to the reader in order that they can fully grasp her lesson. An even more important piece of background presented is when Maya Angelou clarifies and explains the concept of Revelation Day, “It had to be the days of Revelations. The days John the revelator prophesied...People from everywhere, speaking every known language had come to town to watch the end and the beginning of the world” (Angelou Paragraph 30-31) . Even a reader unfamiliar with the idea of Revelation Day can gather the importance of the day and therefore are able to understand the metaphor she creates in the Revelation section of her excerpt. With giving background, Maya Angelou adds clarity to her stories that make her lessons more learnable for the reader. 
	Mark Twain describes describes word choice as, “The difference between the almost right word & the right word is really a large matter—it’s the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning.” A comical example it may be, it does make a point that every word used matters. Maya Angelou uses excellent choice of diction to foreshadow events, to show her viewpoints, and to be ironic. An example of interesting word choice is when she says, “ We marry and we dare to have children” (Angelou paragraph 10). The use of the word dare catches the reader off guard as they do not associate daring with having children. This is ironic because later on she explains how she became pregnant accidentally. If she used a different word there would not have been any irony or attention to her claim on having children. In addition, the word dare may influence the reader to think more if they were to have children, thus causing the sentence to become a lesson. After Maya Angelou moved to California she explains it as having “seductive magic” (Angelou pars. 32). Without much thought this may be a typical thought of much of California but the importance is what happens later in her story when she succumbs to this magic as she sleeps with a guy for the first time. With that piece of knowledge in mind, it advances that description from a statement to act as foreshadowing of the event to come. The use of the word magic here personifies the city as giving it the traits of influence. It brings to attention the idea that the city’s visuals of sexual appeals most likely played a role in her decision to have sex. Not only does Maya’s word choice add insight to her story but in her view of her own mother. As she describes her mother in with a “severe stylish bob” and her mother's house as a “worldly atmosphere” (Angelou par. 21). These signify a negative view of her mother that contained much disapproval. However her word choice alludes to a change in perspective of her mother as she calls her by, “my pretty little mother” (Angelou par. 55) at the end of the excerpt.  This is the first instance where she addresses her mother in a positive fashion in the excerpt. This is a very subtle change in tone and can be overlooked very easily. The little things, the overlooked words of her book define the exemplary level Maya Angelou writes at. 
	Maya Angelou payed close attention to the organization of her book as she used two patterns of organization: topical and chronological. Each section of the excerpt is organized by a certain topic or event with a lesson woven in. For example, in her section marked “Revelation” it is explained that Maya Angelou loses her virginity on Revelation day. Then at the end of that section her baby is called a revelation (Angelou paras. 30, 44), hence bringing the section full circle. She does this circular pattern around her topic in each section as well. This is a successful pattern because it keeps the audience focused around one central idea per section and makes teaching one lesson per section easier. Former president Barack Obama used this organization pattern in his farewell speech. He moved from topic to topic after his introduction with topics such as military, democracy and a section thanking various groups of people (Obama). In a speech, the topical structure helps the audience follow what the speaker is saying. This structure allows the reader to fully understand one lesson at a time and then move on to the next lesson. It alleviates a lot of potential confusion from the reader’s point of view from jumping around or teaching multiple lessons concurrently. Now the other organization pattern Maya Angelou follows is a chronological order of events. Her stories are in time order as she moves from her growing up in Stamps, Arkansas to her move to California. After that she goes into detail about the events leading up to her pregnancy and logically tells about the birth process in the last section (Angelou). This also makes it easier for the reader to follow as out of order events can complicate the reading process. Logically, it makes sense when telling a story to follow time order. Maya Angelou successfully equips her essay by grouping topics together and retelling her story in chronological order to make her book an easier read so that the reader will hold on to more of her lessons.
	Metaphors are used in everyday life to clarify and to emphasize a person’s thoughts to others. Authors use the same strategy in their writing. George Campbell in his text The Philosophy of Rhetoric explains the situations when to use metaphors. He claims the use of metaphors is beneficial when used to clearly clarify a point in an argument. On the other hand, Campbell also points out that the use of over dramatic metaphors is a bad thing because it actually takes away from the literal understanding (Campbell 26-27). Maya Angelou uses metaphors throughout her book to emphasize and to spell out her ideas more clearly to the reader. Her first and most developed metaphor used is, “I believe that one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of ones eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe” (Angelou 7). The use of this metaphor clarifies her view on home and gives more than just clarification but shares feelings with the audience. The idea of shadows, fears and dragons of home walking around with you give insight on how she feels about home. Not only that home is inside you but the negative she must have felt with it; that is the racism in her town that was haunting her. Two other simpler metaphors that Maya Angelou employs are “...but generally our real selves, the children inside, are still innocent and shy as magnolias” (Angelou 10) and “the very air seemed thick and lumpy like bad gravy” (Angelou 35). These are both used to aide the reader in understanding. Most people reading can get a picture of bad gravy in their head and when applying that to the dirtiness of the air paints a clear picture in the head of the reader. This provision of clarification is exactly what Campbell was referring to in his text, The Philosophy of Rhetoric (Campbell 26-27). Similar to the other metaphor, the children metaphor uses an object in a magnolia to show hiding of the kid inside us all. Actual magnolia blossoms only last 2-3 days (“Magnolia”), so the idea of people’s real selves being displayed minimally is advanced by this unlike comparison. Through the use of metaphors, Maya Angelou clarifies her ideas as well as provides a more entertaining read. 
	The excerpt from Letter to My Daughter truly represents the success of Maya Angelou by displaying how she skillfully uses her rhetorical techniques in her purpose of teaching. These techniques of attention to audience, metaphors, word choice and organization all point to an author who knows how to reach her reader. These four techniques are not the only forms of rhetoric present in this excerpt but are the most pertinent. The techniques here can be adopted into the own writing of the reader to improve his own ability to convey to an audience. This rhetorical analysis brought to light the importance of reading in between to lines to conclude what makes an author successful; much insight was derived from researching techniques and meanings behind some of the text in the excerpt. This is something that is true for any rhetorical analysis because it forces the digging deeper of the text. Another result of analyzing a text rhetorically is that one can find any misconceptions or more hidden ideas throughout the paper. This not only strengthens the reader’s understanding of the text but affects the way in which the reader views the author. The rhetorical analysis of Maya Angelou’s excerpt did, in fact, attest to her ability to write extremely well and can be used as a tool for future writers in addition to her intended purpose of life lessons. 
Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter. Penguin Random House, 23 Sept. 2008, 
www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=
email&share=blogpost. Accessed 9 Sept. 2017. 
Campbell, George. The Philosophy of Rhetoric. Chadwyck-Healey, vol. 1, 1999. pp. 26-27. 
Literary Theory Full-Text Database. id=Z000730612&childSectionId=Z000730612&divLevel=0&queryId=3011198935392&trailId=15DF239E3F8&area=prose&forward=textsFT&queryType=findWork. Accessessed 15 Sept. 2017. 
Gillespie, Marcia, et al. “Maya Angelou: a Glorious Celebration.” Maya Angelou: a Glorious 
Celebration, Thorndike Press, 2008, pp. 1–3.
Johnson, Sarah. Literature Online biography. Para. 1. Proquest LLC, 2008. 
literature-proquest-com. Accessed 15 Sept. 2017. 
“Magnolia.” Magnolia/RHS Gardening, Royal Horticulture Society, 
www.rhs.org.uk/advice/profile?PID=599. Accessed 15 Sept. 2017.
Obama, Barack. “Remarks by the President in Farewell Address.” The White House, Office of 
the Press Secretary. 10 Jan. 2017, 
obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-office/2017/01/10/remarks-president-farewell-address. Accessessed 15 Sept. 2017. 
Tindale, Christopher W. “Rhetorical Argumentation and the Nature of Audience: Toward an 
Understanding of Audience––Issues in Argumentation.” Philosophy and Rhetoric, vol. 
46, no. 4, 2013. pp. 525-527. Project MUSE. muse-jhu-edu. Accessessed 15 Sept. 2017.
