The American Struggle
America is one the most diverse countries in the world.  Many immigrants travel to this great land with the hope of a better life, jobs, and better future for their children. In the film “ Park Avenue: money power and the American dream- Why poverty?”, the struggles between the affluent and the poor are perpetually shown.   For example, the opulent side of Park Avenue  is an example of prosperity and power while on the other side of the river, people live in poverty, not visually perceiving much of a transmutation in their living conditions, income and so on.(Gibney 1:35 )  This distant “American Dream” is not within the reach of the poor as it once was in the 1970s. America lags behind in upward mobility compared to several other countries like Denmark and Japan.(Gibney 8:01)  Many of the poor will most likely never be able to realize their American dream for wealth because of gaps in education, lack of job opportunities, and higher tax rates for the poor than the rich.
First, the gaps in education between the upper and lower classes cause poor Americans to experience difficulties in achieving the American dream. The government often implements budget cuts that take funding away from public schools. (Garica para 4 ) Private schools receive more money from the regime and on top of that have private investors. “Research has established that growing up in poverty tends to put children behind.” These test where performed in mind factors like parents income, levels of education, and job status.(Emma para 8).  These tests showed that children in the highest socioeconomic group have the best reading and math skills compared to the children of the lower class.(para 9) Also, the upper class can afford to send their children to college.  The total cost of a college education has increased by 500% since the 1970s.(Gibney 36:39) Despite the availability of financial aid, many families still can’t afford the loan debts. 
Second, the lower class has a lack of job opportunities compared to the upper class. As said by April Dunkley “There are not enough job opportunities for everyone.”(Gibney 37:40) The lower class citizens would not be able to move up without the funds to do so or jobs that would provide them with money for food. The working poor hold the lowest-paying, most unstable jobs.(Kim para 4) These jobs are considered unstable for the fact that they can lose their jobs at anytime.  Also, unlike careers, poor jobs do not come with many benefits such as health care or paid leave. The poor also make a lower daily pay than the rich, for the poor class only make about an average of $40 per day.  (Gibney 1:49)  Forty dollars on average is not enough to feed an entire family, clothe them, pay for gas, etc. 
Third, despite the huge differences in finical stability, the poor are taxed a higher percentage of their income than the rich. As pointed out countless times in “Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream- Why Poverty” The rich are taxed less for their businesses, homes, etc.  Once one reaches the top 0.1 percent, effective tax rates actually start going down.  Each of the top 1,300 richest households in America made more than $62 million in 2012, but they pay a lower percentage in federal income taxes than upper-middle-class people. (Williasmson para 6)  Businessmen like Stephen Schwarzman are paying less taxes than the average upper, middle, and lower class citizen. “It is not about succeeding just though hard , bit about making wealthy interest in the polecat system”.(Gibney15:25) Meaning that Schwarzman  will havepersonal pay for tax cuts to help himself and his business by paying lobbyist, they are rigging the system to help themselves. The government is suppose to give everyone in the United States a voice in the government, yet to have tax polices influenced by money give a unfair advantage to the rich.
Opponents of these views present several arguments. For instance, they say despite the education gaps, the poor are still getting a free education. Then, they would claim even though the poor lack job opportunities they are still getting good jobs. Next, they also believe that the rich are not taxed less than the poor and should not be taxed more anyway. Opposing parties will say that there is nothing wrong with our taxing system and that the rich should be given the freedom to pay fewer taxes. All of these claims are false. 
All of these opposing views are false. Despite the poor receiving, a free education through public schooling; it’s not the best education. Public schooling compared to private schooling SAT scores are shown to be below average at a negative 79 while public schools were at 109.(Council for America Private education para 3). On top of that, the government is constantly pulling funding from public schools and putting more funding into private schools.( Gracia para 2). This causes the school to lack updated materials and poor teachers.  Despite a few of the poor being able to receive jobs, it is not enough for upward mobility in the workforce or even enough to be able to feed their own families. “On average 6 out of low-income families with jobs still depend on food stamps”. ( Gibney 5:06)  Also, the working poor often lack full-year employment. (Kim 8) This means that poor workers could be left without a job for part of the year, not receiving enough funds to support themselves.  Finally, the poor should not pay a high percentage of their income because the rich can afford to pay more, and it is fair for everyone to pay taxes to improve America as a whole. “Taking into account all taxes, almost every adult in the United States qualifies as a taxpayer. Overall, the tax system is moderately progressive; rich people pay a higher percentage than poor people, but almost everyone pays substantial amounts. At the very, very top of the income spectrum, however, taxes stop being progressive.”(Williamson para 5) The wealthy Americans are suppose to pay more taxes than the average American, and there is no reason that they should be paying less. 
America is one of the richest countries in the world; however, despite that, we are still having an increase in the amount families on food stamps, homelessness, and so on. As a country, Americans need to come together to solve this problem and stop harming these people. They need to help provide public schools with more funding and stop the government from taking money out of programs. They should take it into consideration that despite having a job many poor families are struggling finically and that they need more work opportunities. Next, they should protest congress for making polices that give the wealthy tax cuts.  If these boundaries aren’t cut down by the help of others in America the “American dream” may never be reached by poor Americans again. 


Work sited 
Garcia, Emma and Elaine Weiss “Early Education Gaps by Social Class and Race Start U.S. Children Out on Unequal Footing” Economic Policy Institute  December 5, 2017
Gibney, Alex dir. “Park Avenue: money, power and the American dream- Why Poverty?” 11/26/17.
Kim, Marlene “Problems Facing the Working Poor” Department of Labor Studies and Employment Relations  In this article Marlene states May 6, 2010, December 5, 2017
Green, Andrew, and Josh Bivens. “Lack of Jobs, Not Lack of Skills, Explains Underemployment Rate” Economic Policy Institute, May 2011, December 5, 2017
Council for American Private Education Private School Students Boost National SAT Scores November 2014, December  5, 2017
Williamson, Vanessa “Column: How much do the poor actually pay in taxes? Probably more than you think.”PBS NEWS June 8, 2017, December 5, 2017
