Sometimes you must hurt in order to know, fall in order to grow, lose in order to gain because life’s greatest lessons are learnt through pain. This is struggling, the hardships you go through in life. Everyone has gone through a struggle, yet what the important thing is you must learn from it. Experience on how to access a situation and overcome those that reappear, is how we learn. A professional musician has repeated the process of making music so many times they can do it their eyes closed. In the beginning it was difficult, but through experience overtime they have established a understanding for the craft. Over the years I Have learned from my struggle of self-esteem, through art, accepting myself, and creating selective relationships.
	The arts are an outlet for expressing the feelings that have lied deep in you. As a kid I was invested in dancing and in the black community, guys who danced seemed gay and flamboyant, yet we damn near worship the ground that Michael Jackson and Chris Brown walk(ed) on. I didn’t have other friends who danced so I found people to look up, like the two previously mentioned, and some YouTube stars who are now known on a global scale. I also found in comfort in poetry. I could escape my pain and sorrow, and write about it, yet no one would ever read them. Until I gradually showed my talents and people were proud of me as well as very supportive.
	Instead of accepting the lies told to me, it was more beneficial to find out who  I wanted to be  when I grew up and confront those who hurt me. No two people were created to be the same, not even identical twins, so why should we judge and be little those who aren’t like us? “You talk white, Oreo girl (Issa Rae 174),” this quote to me holds so much weigh. For me to be made of for liking others things is very heart breaking as a kid, and to be questioned on how “black” you are cause of it is worse. But being able to appreciate the things you like helps you cherish them more. It is okay to be different, magnets attract to opposites so will people if you be yourself.
	Relationships among teens are a important thing. We take them for granite and sometimes fail to realize who are the real and fake ones. The amount of people I had to let go in my life are a myriad, but it helped me becomes who I am now. The people you associate with reflect who you are. It’s okay to be friendly but watch who you call a friend, some are enemies in disguise. The people in my life are those who have gained my trust and have goals in life to better themselves.
	“I gave no f%^&s,” like Issa Rae said, the negative opinions of those on me have only created a stronger man. I appreciate all of it, it helped me learn who I am, and what I want to be in life. The struggles in life are just lessons that we must learn from.
