Living a Meaningful Life
	There has always seemed to have been a problem for many people when it comes to finding their true path to living a well and meaningful life, as nowadays, the traditional human culture wants its people to live the typical tedious lifestyle. For most people, life has turned into a muscle memorialized act, which they replay over and over because it seems to be the only way they know how to live now. The path to living well and living a life with meaning has consistently been placed on an elevated pedestal that is seemingly untouchable and imperceptible, meaning that the traditional human culture has forgotten to utilize this way of living. However, an African-American poet and civil rights activist, Maya Angelou, wrote an excerpt titled “Letter to My Daughter,” in which she illuminates the path to a meaningful life by employing an arsenal of rhetorical strategies.  This excerpt shows how she was brought up by her impregnable grandmother in segregated Arkansas, taken in at thirteen by her more temporal and less religious mother, and raised in a fashion that she ended up becoming an awkward, six-foot-tall teenager whose first experience of loveless sex negligently left her with her greatest and considerable gift, a son. To present her trek towards living a more purposeful lifestyle, Maya Angelou utilizes a combination of parallel structures and metaphors, allowing her audience to perceive this path to fulfillment. 


Maya Angelou’s journey begins with her explanation on society's definition of what growing up is and how their definition is just an another usual belief. Their beliefs are what most people tend to believe what growing up consists of, such as getting married, having kids, and landing a well-paying job. Maya knew all along that most people would deny that they have an inner child embedded somewhere within themselves, but at the end of the day, we all have that youthful feeling inside of us, it will always be there and that inner child will also prevent us from growing up. She also believes that growing up alludes towards getting older by the day, as can be seen in the quote “I am convinced that most people do not grow up. We find parking spaces and honor our credit cards. We marry and dare to have children and call that growing up. I think what we do is mostly grow old. We carry accumulation of years in our bodies and on our faces, but generally our real selves, the children inside, are still innocent and shy as magnolias” (Angelou 10). Maya Angelou’s utilization of parallel structure throughout this quote represents how she relates to everyone around her. The parallel structure of “We” helps her audience feel like she's not throwing anything on them and Maya takes the blame with everyone else. She describes in great detail how we all consider getting married and having kids, as a way of fulfilling society’s traditional beliefs regarding growing up, and the way she explains it allows her audience to understand what concept she is trying to emphasize on.
The following excerpt goes away from Maya’s thoughts toward growing up to her relationship with her impregnable grandmother. Her grandmother raised her in a particular way which Maya thought was the correct and right way to be raised, but as she moved in with her mother, whom she did not relate with, she felt isolated for quite some time. For instance, Maya’s grandmother took her back to California to drop her off with her mother, while her grandmother herself returned back to Arkansas as soon as she had dropped her off. Right as Maya got to her mother’s house, she recognized very significant differences, such as the size of the house itself. Her mother “...wore her straight hair in a severe stylish bob” and her “grandmother didn’t believe in hot curling women’s hair, so I had grown up with a braided natural. Grandmother turned our radio on to listen to the news, religious music, Gang Busters, and The Lone Ranger. In California, my mother wore lipstick and rouge and played loud blues music and jazz on a record player. I definitely did not belong.” Maya came to realize that she did not fit well within her mother’s lifestyle, but as time went by, she learned to compromise with her mother and become open minded with different people (Angelou 20). Maya Angelou’s utilization of parallel structure throughout this particular part of her excerpt was quite somber because she emphasized on how she had to leave her grandmother for a lifestyle that she didn’t relate to, but by doing so, she learned to be open-minded and approachable to others. By utilizing this rhetorical device, Maya Angelou informs her audience about the significant change she had gone through and how she learned to be more unprejudiced because of her mother's considerate advice.
Jennifer J. Ator, a known attorney, also wrote an article called, “Change is Good. Really.” Within this piece, she emphasizes on the fact that change is for the best and we need to accept new changes for our wellbeing. This article also explains how lawyers have to change from within themselves and how they have to think outside the box to present their cases. Ator emphasizes on how lawyers deal with many changes on a daily basis and most of them have become aware of these specific alterations, which help them grow new senses for better techniques. These changes consist of law changes or in a client's circumstances and/or statements. She emphasizes on this by stating, “there is no doubt about it, change is hard. But change is good, and lawyers must remember that we might be busy helping shape the laws of this country, but we also have to adapt to the changes our culture-whether those changes are technological, economic, or societal” (Ator 6). Ator utilizes the rhetorical strategy of parallel structure throughout this particular quote and this allows her to emphasize on how we need to adapt to new change and grow from within. This relates back to Maya Angelou’s excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter,” due to the fact that Maya also adapted to new changes like moving to new places and meeting new people. These shifting circumstances Maya faced helped her grow character and helped her to learn to become elated for herself. 
Maya Angelou’s excerpt moves toward her life after she moves to California with her mother. After taking her mother’s considerate advice about being open-minded and approachable, she started to feel pleased with her new lifestyle in California and had no problem with living there anymore. As some time went by, a boy up the street from where Maya lived had shown a lot of interest in her, but Maya waved him off because she really didn’t know him. After rejecting the boy for months, Maya noticed something about her body, and “it was during that time that I noticed my body’s betrayal. My voice became deep and husky, and my naked image in the mirror gave no intimations that it would ever become feminine and curvy. I was already six feet tall and had no breasts. I thought maybe if I had sex my recalcitrant body would grow up and behave as it was supposed to behave” (Angelou 35). From that point, Maya made the choice of sleeping with the boy that lived up the street, which she knew was the wrong choice she had made. Angelou’s utilization of the rhetorical strategy of imagery in this part of the excerpt allows her to emphasize on how she made her choice to sleep with that unfamiliar boy. Maya had seen how her body wasn't meeting the standards of a six-foot-tall female, so she thought that having intercourse would be the solution, but she knew all along that she was making the wrong decision.
As Maya Angelou’s excerpt came to a conclusion, many shocking and outrageous occurrences were yet to come. After Maya had sex with that random boy who lived in her neighborhood, she was left with a beautiful baby boy. Before the birth of her infant child, Maya had to inform her parents about her pregnancy. She informed her step-father with a note that stated, “Dad, I am sorry to bring disgrace to the family, but I have to tell you that I am pregnant.” Maya seemed to be in shame and embarrassed in the following note that she wrote her confession onto her step-father and she stayed up all night thinking about her step-father's reaction toward her confession. After getting the note, Maya’s step-father was quite understanding and he went on to tell her mother, who was all really considerate about her pregnancy. As Maya’s parents were being informed about her pregnancy, she had built up a sense of guilt in herself, stating that “the sound of him walking away was not nearly as loud as the sound of my heart racing” (Angelou 40). Maya Angelou yet again deploys the rhetorical strategy of imagery to emphasize on how Maya’s sense of guilt had her heart racing louder than the sound of footsteps. Her confession to her parents ended up helping her in the future because she had some family to assist her through her pregnancy. 
Michael Skau is a known Professor of English at the University of Nebraska-Omaha and he is known for his meaningful and in-depth poems and journals. Skau wrote a poem titled, “Confession,” where he presents a confession about a series of tragic events happening at a particular time. Skau states how tragic sins have become to be graved memories, as he says “I can't remember all the sins I should be sorry for. I regret the lies I've told so often I have convinced myself they're true, the loves I starved into meager hurt and hate. I haven't murdered anyone, but I made too many cries. I'm not especially good, just timid in my evil. I've tried to hold my anger, to keep my curses fair and few” (Skau 1). The following confession that is presented in this quote has its audience on their toes because so much emotion and soreness is shown within this in-depth quote. Skau goes on to explain how taking someone else's earnings and dignity is a sin itself, stating that “adultery still haunts me, the primal sin, Eden's infidelity, eating someone else's fruit. I lost her love. We lose most things in life--health, control, wits, hopes, and best of all, when guilt would cleave our hearts in two, our memories--something to look forward to” (Skau 1). Skau utilizes the rhetorical strategy of imagery throughout this deep poem because it helps him present the emotional stress of the confession. He emphasizes on the fact that confessions assist people that have committed tragic sins and it gives these people a sense of relief to their hearts. This also ties back to Maya Angelou’s excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter,” as according to societal standards, Maya had committed many sins, such as sleeping with an unknown boy, getting pregnant, and hiding her pregnancy for months. Maya had built up a wall of guilt inside her because she wasn’t so sure how her parents would react to her pregnancy. After making the right choice to make the confession to her parents, her parents turned out to be quite understanding of her situation, and from that point on, Maya’s mother assisted her through the last few months of her pregnancy and they both had become closer to one another through that specific time period (Angelou 42). Maya’s confession got her some understanding loved ones around her for her life changing moment. This shows how significant her confession was for her future ties to her parents that took everything into consideration and helped their daughter through a very happy, but painful time.
All in all, Maya Angelou’s book, “Letter to My Daughter,” weaves together a combination of parallel structures and metaphors, allowing her audience to visualize the path towards living a meaningful life. Throughout this excerpt, Maya Angelou does a wonderful and creative job to present these ways in living a fulfilled life. This excerpt emphasizes on how Maya faced many berserk problems in her life, but she continued to keep her head held up high. Angelou lived a life where she can say she was her own person and where she made her own decisions. Even after getting stood up by an unfamiliar face, Maya had still made the decision to keep her newborn. Maya’s decision paid off for her because that same child turned out to be a loving husband and father, and the world’s greatest son. Maya Angelou showed us how there will always be problems and complications in our lives, but our top priority is to persevere through these tough times and push on.
















Work Cited
 
1, 2012 Signature January. “Excerpt: ‘Letter to My Daughter’ by Maya Angelou.” Signature Reads, 9 July 2015, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost.

Ator, Jennifer J. “FROM THE EDITOR: Change Is Good. Really.” GPSolo, vol. 25, no. 2, 2008, pp. 4–4. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/23673510.

Michael Skau. “Confession.” Literature Resource Center, Midwest Quarterly, 2011, http://removed-this-url.com/