The Misuse, The Manipulation, The Unruliness
Facebook is a popular social networking platform used by majority of people in the United States and around the world. Despite the popularity, it may seem that Facebook is being used for the wrong meaning. After reading Lori Andrews essay “Facebook is Using You,” individuals may question whether being an active user of Facebook is a good idea. Andrews argues vigorously against the use of Facebook and other similar platforms because Facebook misuse is outrageous, users are being terribly manipulated and data aggregation is unruly. 
 Unlike other corporations, Facebook’s inventory consists of only personal data. It’s hard to believe that such a strong and popular social media platform is being used for the wrong reasons. In the beginning of her essay, Andrews touches base on the outrageous misuse of Facebook. “Facebook makes money by selling ad space to companies that want to reach us. Advertisers choose key words or details - like relationship status, location, activities, favorite books and employment…” (para.2). Depending on what you put on your social media is what you will receive ads for. The amount of personal information Facebook has for each of its user’s is outrageous and frankly manipulating. 
Manipulation is another main problem touched on throughout Andrews’ essay. This act isn’t only occurring on Facebook, but also on other sites as well. The lives of many individuals can easily be used against them simply based on what they search or look at. Andrews gives an example where if you’ve mentioned anxiety in an email, done a Google search for stress or started using an online medical diary that lets you monitor your mood, expect ads for medications and services to treat your anxiety (para. 3). The smallest amount of information can end up being used against an individual. Whether a person can get a job, have credit or insurance can be based on their social media status and they may never know why they’ve been turned down. 
Although manipulation is a huge problem, so is data aggregation. Data aggregation is when information about someone is gathered and used for purposes, such as statistical analysis. Facebook and other social sites on the other hand use this method to get more in-depth information on an individual. Andrews comments, “If I Google “diabetes” for a friend or date rape drugs for a mystery I’m writing, data aggregators assume those searches reflect my own health and proclivities. Because no laws regulate what types of data these aggregators can collect, they make their own rules” (para 7). This process is very unruly because whether the information is about you or not, data aggregators will assume by what you search and just like manipulation it can end up in a person being turned down for a job. 
Facebook is a very popular social media platform used by majority of people in this world. Although Facebook is losing it’s true meaning, that may not stop individuals from joining and staying on the site. Lori Andrews does argue vigorously against the use of Facebook and other similar platforms because Facebook misuse is outrageous, users are being terribly manipulated and data aggregation is unruly. Overall, her essay covers the major mishaps that are occurring throughout the social media world.  



Works Cited
Kennedy, X. J., “Facebook Is Using You.” The Bedford Reader, 13th ed., Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2016, pp. 541–544.
