Merit versus Need based Awards
    Most people learn from a very young age that if you try and work hard for something that you will be rewarded for it yet our student funding does not reflect this. Most students have seen first hand how unfair this system is; students that have shockingly low gpa’s are receiving thousands of dollars for school but students who have amazing gpa’s get nothing. Several organizations are in charge of student funding but the most prominent association is the biggest offender of doing this unjust act and that is FAFSA. FAFSA or Free Application for Federal Student Aid is the government's funding towards student education and is filled out annually by students across the nation in hopes of grants or different forms of funding. Most people argue that we should give these students a chance to be able to attend college and that they should receive funding but all this is doing is encouraging someone who is proven to not do well a chance to fail. The smartest investment would be towards students that are already doing well and would produce a degree. Students of all backgrounds, races, and lifestyles apply for funding through the state annually but none of that actually matters, the only thing that makes a difference will be how much money their parents make. This paper will be arguing the reasoning behind why they do this, how fair this system is really, and ways we can change it into encouraging students to do better, not just giving them more money for subpar work. How we allow this funding to go to waste on students that do not prioritize to get better grades is shocking. The change towards this program needs to happen immediately before more kids are affected by this ridiculous program.
Toulmin's article, “Toulmin: Dissecting the Everyday Argument” discusses how a person can argue to get their point across in the most efficient way possible. The first way to really get an argument across is to fully understand what you are arguing and figure out the easiest way to convey this message. He uses a chart to show how deep a person must think about their point and though this may be a little much he shows the deeper understandings of the argument. To have a solid argument, according to Toulmin, it must include the Claim, Data, Warrant, Backing, Rebuttal, and Qualifiers. Toulmin explains how we can believe something due to the flow of the writing, “Sometimes we miss the faults of an argument because it sounds good or appears to have clear connections between the statement and the evidence, when in truth the only thing holding the argument together is a lovely sentence or an artistic flourish.” (Toulmin 169). This is extremely true due to the fact that when someone says something with enough conviction they are blindly trusted. After reading this paper you will agree that this subject argues itself and common sense will show you that people that work hard should be invested in, not the people who do not care.
    The article “Merit Aid: The Practice of Giving Money to Those Who Do Not Need It” by Raymond Brown goes over the problems with giving money to those who do not financially need it. It applauds groups like FAFSA and College Board for only giving money to those less fortunate, not based on grades, but goes on to explain how and why Merit awards are still used.  He tries to make a strong argument for this way of distributing money but fails to fully explain the counter argument. Brown then explains specifically what results from using merit aid awards and then goes over Merit awards themselves and why people even continue to do this. 
 His three reasons as to why merit aid is continued is quite interesting, “First, since the majority of private colleges, as well as an increasing number in the public sector, employ merit aid, they are a useful tool to reposition a college by enhancing its profile.”( Brown 6). This is saying that colleges want to raise their overall GPA and have the bar raised for their students so they give money in academic scholarships. This definitely makes sense, every college wants students to have high achievement because this reflects goof in the institution. The second reason is, “The market forces that are working in its favor when an institution chooses scholarships to attract better-caliber students are the same forces working against or for its competitors as well.” (Brown 7). The point Brown makes here is that competitors will not do as well if you are giving out scholarships to the students who attend your university and they do not give out any money. Giving out thousands of dollars has never hurt a cause and due to this students are much more encouraged to go to this school. The final point Brown makes is , “...the use of merit aid is as basic as needing to ‘make the class.’” (Brown 7). He is saying with this point that to offset the high price of their schooling they give out Merit scholarships. This gives a fair mix of students so a school has geniuses as well as average students. Brown then goes on to explain his reasons with, “The first two reasons deal with sculpting the incoming class; the notion that even a mediocre student can be meritorious, and therefore worthy of merit aid, is widespread through society.” (Brown 7). Brown's article is biased but he does a great job of explaining himself and telling both sides of the argument of giving money based on merit. 
A great real life example of the abuse of the FAFSA system is an acquaintance of mine at the community college that acquired ten thousand dollars last year due to his low income. This would be no problem if he was a good hard working student but looking at his grades he was mediocre at best. Not only did this person get this much money but they only needed less than a thousand dollars to fully pay for their tuition and used the rest to fix up their car. This should not be happening and is an insult to the system especially when students that had above a 3.5 gpa are receiving nothing. The problem is programs like FAFSA do not ask any prevalent questions as to who the person is, they just do not care. This program discourages good students from even attending a decent college. All funding should be based merit, otherwise it is too easy for students who do not try to waste thousands of dollars.
Another article is “The Politics of Determining Merit Aid Eligibility Criteria: An Analysis of the Policy Process” by Erik Ness that explains how policy is made towards giving money to students. The money going towards students in substantial and should be divided up in the fairest way possible, “The substantive result in these fourteen states is that non-need-based aid has increased from $349 million to $2.2 billion since 1994, while need-based aid has increased only slightly from $700 million to $800 million” (Ness 1). This is billions of dollars being discussed and should not be taken lightly and they way it is distributed should be as fair as possible. They have a variety of ways to try and construct the best policy and do things like, “...the policy agenda and that can be construed as “problems” to be solved.” (Ness 4). They are a highly organized group that has several parallelisms with our government's policy making skills, “The policy stream represents possible solutions, or policy alternatives, that can be generated by varying stakeholders, including elected officials and their staffs, interest groups, governmental agencies, and researchers.” (Ness 4). This article then goes on to explain how different places like New Mexico are when it comes to the policies of funding, they have a “HOPE Scholarship program” that is lottery based so everyone has the same chance of getting it. This is even more unfair than California's controversial policy and it is astounding that this even happens. So though California has a discouraging policy system we can at least be satisfied that funding is not just completely by chance.
“Scholarship Awards, Student Engagement, and Leadership Capacity of High-Achieving Low-Income Students of Color” is an article by Shouping Hu about how scholarships are awarded due to several different factors and how that affects them acting in school. This paper has already discussed the effects of awarding money to students undeserving but this article goes in depth in giving money to those low income students that work extremely hard. This is something most everyone can stand behind and the article even demonstrates, “high-achieving low-income students of color who received scholarship awards tend to have higher level of leadership efficiency and are more likely to take on leadership positions after college graduation” (Hu 17). This study also shows how involvement at the college level can really affect how you are in the career field, “Both academic and social engagement in college activities have positive influences on student leadership efficiency and taking on leadership positions in their community and the society…” (Hu 17). Perhaps the most significant part of this article though is the use of GMS awards and how this affects students. The GMS is a major initiative of the Gated Foundation and supports the high achievement of low income students of color in secondary education. (Hu 4). Receiving a GMS is shown to have a major impact on students in this study and also shows how involved the recipients become during college but after college they tend to not get involved at all. (Hu 14). The biggest correlation they had between students that received GMS and students that did not are, “scholarship awards like the GMS are positively related to student academic engagement and social engagement in college, which in themselves are meaningful outcomes” (Hu 17). These findings are extremely significant to this paper's topic; these students are getting funded but they work hard for this and deserve every bit that they get.
“Gender Inequity in the National Merit Scholarship Program." by Bryan Nankervis, Nankervis goes over how the PSAT and SAT can predict how students  will do and how merit scholarships are awarded broken down by gender and states. Though it looks like Boys are awarded with more merit scholarships annually they show the reasoning behind this and that is they score better on the SAT. This is actually surprising due to females generally having higher grades than males and also generally test better than males. The SAT is scored by two portions, the reading and mathematics, “While males and females historically performed similarly on the reading portion, males consistently averaged higher scores on the mathematics portion leading to higher total scores.” (Nankervis 2). This article also goes into using only one test to determine the merit of a student's whole career and how this is not the most efficient way to do this, “ Determining “merit” using a score from a single test that is not validated for such a purpose is ill conceived and runs contrary to best practices in the use of standardized tests.” (Nankervis 6). One test does not factor in countless other factors that goes into a student, the extracurriculars and GPAs are just as important.
 Nankervis’s article goes deeply into who gets funded based on merit not exactly the merit versus need based awards but is still relevant to the paper. It shows that the students that work hard are more likely to receive money and the top students, based on the SAT scores, will get the majority of college paid for. This is reiterating the fact that when you work hard for something you can and will be rewarded for this. Students that can show that they are academically superior are sought after and this is shown when the article stated, “...approximately 15,000 high school seniors are chosen as National Merit finalists as a result of their scores on the PSAT and SAT exams” (Nankervis 1). Working hard will get you a lot of places but not trying and having a low income should get you nowhere.
The last article being discussed is “Rise in Merit Scholarships Cuts Financial Lifeline for Needy Students.” this goes over some stories of students attending college that otherwise could not due to the use of financial aid. It is a story that most college students debate over, whether or not to pick the more prestigious school and be extremely broke or pick the alright school and have money to live more comfortably. This situation is nothing new to students who work hard but one way students may be enticed to attend a different college is scholarship opportunities that may go along with all of these prospects. The article discusses why people may be against merit scholarships and also explains why people may choose to not go to school due to the price, “Critics say that by devoting aid to students who don’t need it, state schools are punishing the poor, making it harder for them to attend college when the gap between tuition costs and affordability is only growing.” (Rise Scholarships 1). This article goes over the mindset of choosing a college based on financial need and prestige while also mildly going over the topic of need and merit based scholarships.
This entire research paper went over the absurdities in the system of financial aid and how the salary of someone else affects whether or not you are funded to go to class. Good students should be getting money and not students that only put in the bare minimum of work. The paper has gone over the fairness of FAFSA and like organizations, ways the policy is made and how a student's entire career is put into a box based on a single test score and nothing else. Most people say that we should be helping students that are not as financially stable with financing education and that they should get this special treatment due to not having the same privileges but this paper disagrees. The way we distribute money should not ask the income of the parents at all because it is not asked if parents are going to help fund the student. Why should it matter if a parent makes over two-hundred thousand when they do not support the child at all. We should be helping any student regardless of privilege or salary and this should be purely based on how hard the student works. This can be measured through an accumulation of GPA, test scores and extracurriculars performed by the individual. Thousands of dollars should not be awarded to a student so that they can fix up a car, it should be given to deserving students to pay for tuition and other scholarly bills. Our policy makers try to do the best they can but the policy still needs improvement and merit scholarships deserve more credit. FAFSA should be considering all students when allocating money, not just the needy students.












Work Cited
Brown, Raymond. "Merit Aid: The Practice of Giving Money to Those Who Do Not Need It." New Directions for Student Services, vol. 2007, no. 118, Summer 2007, pp. 39-47. doi:10.1002/ss.239.

Ness, Erik C. "The Politics of Determining Merit Aid Eligibility Criteria: An Analysis of the Policy Process." Journal of Higher Education, vol. 81, no. 1, Jan/Feb 2010, pp. 33-60. 

Hu, Shouping. "Scholarship Awards, Student Engagement, and Leadership Capacity of High-Achieving Low-Income Students of Color." Journal of Higher Education, vol. 82, no. 5, Sep/Oct2011, pp. 511-534. 

Nankervis, Bryan. "Gender Inequity in the National Merit Scholarship Program." Journal of College Admission, no. 219, Spring 2013, pp. 20-25. 

"Rise in Merit Scholarships Cuts Financial Lifeline for Needy Students." Community College Week, vol. 29, no. 5, 10 Oct. 2016, p. 3.