Why Mental Health Awareness Matters
	Mental illness has been a problem for thousands of years. Unlike many physical illnesses, mental health problems are not outwardly visible. The visible symptoms of mental illness are behaviors. For a long time, with no other explanation for the odd behavior, it was believed to be supernatural in origin. One attempt to fix the behavior was trephination, or drilling a hole in the skull. For most of human history, the reaction to mentally ill people was to just shun them from society. Mental hospitals like Bethlehem (Bedlam) Hospital in London were mainly places to keep the mentally ill confined. The conditions were usually overcrowded and unsanitary. In some places, the mentally ill were put in jail rather than mental hospitals. When Dorothea Dix visited a prison in 1841, she found mentally ill people living in horrible conditions and mixed in with criminals. It wasn’t until the end of the 19th century that real efforts began to help the mentally ill. In modern times, most of the focus is on helping people cope with their illnesses and get back to normal life with therapy and medication. 
	Although there have been a lot of improvements, 1 in 5 Americans suffers from a mental illness, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness. The large amount of stigma and misinformation about mental illness makes many people reluctant to get help for mental health issues. People are divided over whether more public awareness of mental health will help with the problems. More public awareness will reduce the stigma, but some people argue that the mentally ill can only really be helped by more funding for research. More research is obviously important, but it will only go so far if people do not understand why the research is important.
	One key reason to reduce the stigma is that it makes life much more difficult for people with mental illness. A 2014 article published on the British Journal of Psychiatry’s website concluded that the stigma around mental illness seems to be a risk factor for suicide. People with mental illness are already much more likely to commit suicide—in fact, about 90% of suicides are due to mental health issues— but since stigma causes consequences like social isolation, mentally ill people who feel stigmatized because of their illness are even more likely to commit suicide. Internalizing the stigma also makes those with mental health problems feel guilty and hopeless. Although the article says more research has to be done, “there is initial evidence for the efficacy of interventions to reduce public stigma” (Rüsch, et al.). This makes sense. If mental illness was less stigmatized, people would be able to get better help and they would not feel guilty about their illness. It’s easy to see how better education about mental health issues could help reduce the suicide rate.
	Better public awareness of mental health issues starts with children, teenagers, and young adults. In 2005, Queens University in Ontario, Canada, published a study of high school students in Canada and the UK. The study showed that after doing activities to learn more about mental health problems and stigma, the teenagers were less influenced by the negative stigma. For example, smaller numbers of students believed that mentally ill people are dangerous after they had been through the program. A similar survey done in Victoria, Australia showed that young people aged 12-25 had a more positive view of mental health treatment after exposure to an ad campaign about it. In the paper, they write “mental health literacy is a key to early recognition and help seeking” (Wright, et al.) Teaching children about these issues helps to make sure that younger generations are willing to seek help, and that they’ll be more accepting of people with mental illnesses.
	Not everyone agrees that better public awareness is the best way to deal with this problem, or even a good way to deal with it. In an article by Sophie Arie, she quotes Simon Wesseley, a British psychiatrist, as saying “Every time we have a mental health awareness week my spirits sink. We don’t need people to be more aware. We can’t deal with the ones who already are aware.” He argues that without enough resources to help the people who already need help, more awareness is not a good thing. Although he has a very good point, he doesn’t consider the idea that more awareness means more people who care, not just more people who go get therapy. People who learn more about mental illness might want to help. If we stop teaching people about mental health issues, they will lose interest, which means fewer people will want to help.
The Lancet Global Mental Health Group wrote an article arguing that “scaling-up of services for people with mental disorders is the most important priority for global mental health” (1241). Their focus is not on stigma, but on better funding for mental health services. They also believe there needs to be more funding for research. Considering it was published in the Lancet, a medical journal, it’s unsurprising that the article was speaking mostly to doctors. The problem with this is that if only doctors care about what’s happening, not much will get done. Almost every article asking for more funding for mental health services is geared towards people who already have a reason to care. What about people who don’t know enough to care? Better education would get more people to care about better funding, and they would push for it. 
So many people have dealt with, and will deal with, mental health issues. Progress has been made towards helping these people, but if there continues to be so much stigma, the progress will not matter. To end the stigma, people, especially children, need to learn the truth about mental health issues. Better public awareness is the only way to reduce stigma and get the public to care about helping the people who need to be helped. 


 
	












Works Cited
Arie, Sophie. “Simon Wessely: “Every time we have a mental health awareness week my spirits sink”.” BMJ, British Medical Journal Publishing Group, 21 Sept. 2017, www.bmj.com/content/358/bmj.j4305.
Auerbach, Michael. "Mental Illness Awareness and Research: Overview." Points of View: Mental Illness Awareness & Research, 31 Mar. 2017, p. 1. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=pwh&AN=110404376&site=pov-live.
Faria, Miguel A. “Violence, mental illness, and the brain – A brief history of psychosurgery: Part 1 – From trephination to lobotomy.” Surgical Neurology International, Medknow Publications & Media Pvt Ltd, 5 Apr. 2013, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3640229/.
“Mental Health By the Numbers.” NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-the-Numbers.
Pinfold, Vanessa, et al. “Working with young people: the impact of mental health awareness programmes in schools in the UK and Canada.” Queens University, Sept. 2005.
Rüsch, Nicolas, et al. “Does the stigma of mental illness contribute to suicidality?” The British Journal of Psychiatry, The Royal College of Psychiatrists, 1 Oct. 2014, bjp.rcpsych.org/content/205/4/257#ref-2. 
“Scale up services for mental disorders: a call for action.” The Lancet, Elsevier, 4 Sept. 2007, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673607612422.
Wright, Annemarie, et al. “Development and evaluation of a youth mental health community awareness campaign – The Compass Strategy.” BMC Public Health, BioMed Central, 22 Aug. 2006, bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2458-6-215.
