Growth Between Freedom and Slavery

	During the 1600’s in Virginia, slavery was inhumane and miserable. Slaves were not the first people that were part of the working force, it all started off with indentured servants. These were people from England or Ireland (Class Lecture). As time passed by, plantation owners realized it was cheaper to have slaves rather than indentured servants (Jones lecture). Laws were not extremely strict at first, but with time it was found necessary to have harsh laws against the African American slaves.
	Indentured servants were part of the low class for white people, they usually originated from Ireland or England (Class lecture). Plantation owners needed work to be done on their fields since crops were a growing business, so they would pay the servant’s boat trip and provide them shelter and meals during their stay on the plantation. There was usually a contract of four to seven years, once that time period would be done then the indentured servants would get a redemption from the plantation owners; this would include land, equipment, or sometimes cash (Jones lecture). However, plantation owners took rights away from the indentured servants, but there was a possibility of becoming free as one in twenty indentured servants had the ability to become free (Friday Discussion Class).
	During the 1600’s slaves began to arrive to Virginia. At first they would come in small groups which eventually led to bigger groups that were shipped over to Virginia (Class lecture). Plantation owners decided this idea was the most convenient because they only had to pay a one time payment upfront, and they were able to keep the slaves and their children for the rest of their lives (Class lecture). Not only this, but the plantation owners did not have to provide shelter, food, or clothing for the slaves. The slaves were not given any rights and they didn’t have freedom. Slaves were not able to sue their masters like the indentured servants were able to, but even the indentured servants rarely won their cases. The court house consisted of the elite whom came up with the laws, therefore, the indentured servants’ case would be overlooked (Discussion class). 
In addition, slaves were considered an object rather than human with the barbaric laws put against them. Masters were able to rape their slaves to increase the amount of workers on the field. Unfortunately, because of the law passed in December of 1662 any child born would carry the same status as their mother, so if the mom was a slave that would automatically make the child a slave (Virginia Race Laws). As time passed, the population of slaves expanded and their individual dignity was reduced.  
	During the first couple of years that slaves were shipped over to America, punishments were light, they weren’t harshly enforced directly towards African Americans. There was a mixture of indentured servants and slaves working on the plantation together, and everyone was held accountable for their own actions. Hugh Davis, an indentured servant, had intimate relationships with a woman that was a slave, it was strictly forbidden for actions as such to occur because it was considered a sin (Virginia Race Laws). As his punishment he received whips in front of many African Americans so that they could learn from the mistake (Virginia Race Laws). 
Furthermore, as time progressed, laws got more strict and were enforced upon the African American slaves only, and as time developed indentured servants were no longer working for plantation owners because slaves were the cheapest option for labor. Freedom was reduced and slavery expanded all throughout Virginia, and because the amount of slaves outnumbered the plantation owners the local government felt threatened. As a result, the law during June of 1680 prohibited any slave of having possession of a weapon (Virginia Race Laws). This demonstrated fear, for the same reason that they were outnumbered there was a high possibility that the slaves could have united together and attacked the plantation owners to regain their freedom that they once had before being brought to America. While slaves got their freedom taken away, the masters were gaining an unlimited amount of freedom (Jones lecture). For the same reason that slaves could unite as one powerful group, the law published on October of 1669 banned slaves from running away or resisting their master in any way, or else the owner had the right to severely punish or kill them (Virginia Race Laws). This led to less communication within slaves that belonged to other plantation owners, which meant that it would be more difficult to resist against the cruel actions that were being held against them. 
	All in all, during the 17th century in Virginia, slaves outnumbered the white colonists, yet they still had little to no power within them. They were seen as inferior, and even if they were baptized into the Christian religion it would not exempt them from being a slave (Virginia Race Laws). Plantation owners would get aggressive as the laws passed which gave them more freedom to mistreat their slaves. Slavery slowly developed into something massively cruel throughout time. They were in the hands of savages that didn’t idolize anything besides their production and business.