Slave Religion 
    
The lives of enslaved people were that of hardship and daily challenge. For many slaves, there was no light at the end of the tunnel that was their lives. Many were enslaved throughout the entirety of their lives and saw no hope in being freed. Slaves tried to incorporate as much normalcy in their lives as possible, which served to differentiate themselves from their identity as an enslaved person. One thing that took hold in the lives of many slaves was religion. Religion came to be an important aspect in the lives of slaves, as it provided them with hope and strength in times of despair and hardship. 
The religion of slaves is a very unique, multi-faceted topic to analyze. The experiences that slaves had involving religion varied from place to place. In some cases, religion was an open aspect of slaves lives, which was allowed and supported by their masters. In others, it was completely different. In a recollection of her time as a slave, Marriah Hines wrote about how she had the experience of religious freedom under the master of the plantation that she worked on. She described “great religious freedom she, her family, and her friends enjoyed.” Because of the views that her slave owner had about religion and slavery, Hines was able to live a pleasant life with religious freedom, despite her circumstances. However, for every one master who allowed their slaves to practice religion, there were many more who did not. Hines went on to talk about those who did not have the type of freedom she experienced, stating, “On a plantation with intolerant masters, slaves often had to go underground to partake in any sort of worship.” This account shows how the experiences slaves had regarding religion were different depending on their situations. 
It has been shown time and time again the horrible conditions and circumstances that slaves had to live their lives in. For many, it was hard to live a life of hope when the future seemed to have no freedom in sight. One thing that many slaves turned to in their lives of despair and hardship was their faith. The religion that slaves practiced provided them a source of hope during hard times. Aaron, a slave during the nineteenth century had a life that exemplified the idea of slaves using their religion as a source of hope. In the narrative written about his life as a slave, there are many times where Aaron mentions his faith and its importance. For example, at one point Aaron described his beliefs about God.  He talked about how even if people on earth have to suffer, God will provide blessing in Heaven, so long as He is believed in and worshipped until the end.  Aaron was a man who had extensive knowledge of the bible, as it was proclaimed on the front cover of his narrative and shown throughout the work. Aaron put in a lot of work trying to get his story out and read by the world. Aaron was dedicated to spreading his story, which was filled with biblical references and personal testimony. This could suggest that he wanted other slaves to gain the hope he himself had through faith. 
Aaron mentioned God and how his faith gave him hope many times in his narrative. At another point in his work, he made another reference to the hardship that slaves had to suffer. Aaron said, “Now the poor slave when he is tied to the whipping post and whipped almost to death, he has no father to protect him, and no mother to protect him, and no one to fly to but his Heavenly Father. They have to bear patiently with their hard task masters, and live humble and faithful to God, and then at the end of the warfare God will richly crown them in heaven.” At that point, Aaron was explaining how the slaves may not have had anyone on earth to turn to, but God would be there in the end. In the particular scenario that he described, a slave is being whipped and punished. While whippings did occur, there were also many other punishments and inequities that slaves endured. Aaron could have been using this particular scenario to show how God and faith were a light of hope for the slaves in any situation that they faced. 
Many slaves made it very apparent in the writings they left behind that their faith was an important aspect of their lives. For Thomas Anderson, his faith was substantially life changing. In a narrative about his life in slavery, Anderson described how he spent a good portion of his life “wicked” and did not have a hopeful outlook on life until he started to attend church. Anderson also described a time shortly after he became a Christian. He told a story about how his master whipped him because he believed that his religion was not real. After the whipping, Anderson recounted how he spoke to his master, "You have whipped out all fear, and I am not afraid of you no more. You can take a gun and shoot me or kill me, as you please, and all for nothing; and that is all you can do: for I know I have a life you cannot touch, and the fear of you will not keep me from doing anything my new Master tells me to do.” This illustrated that with the strength that Anderson had in his faith, he was able to have hope and strength after such a horrible act against him. Thomas Anderson never strayed from his belief in his faith. Even when life was difficult and the challenges began to wear him down, Anderson stated that he “never doubted the grace of God.” This shows that even when times were tough, Anderson continued to rely on his faith. He supported this idea by saying, “he has nursed me through all the journey of my life, and has been my comforter in distress.”
Slaves faced many challenges and hardships throughout their lives. They faced more struggles in living as normal a life as they could than anyone in today's society could even begin to endure. Something that society takes for granted today is the freedom to practice religion. For many slaves, their faith provided them with the strength and hope they had for the future. 
















Bibliography

Aaron. The Light and Truth of Slavery: Aaron’s History. Worcester: n.p., 1845

Bolling, Katherine. “A Schism in the South: The Formation of Slave Religion.” History Matters         9 (2012): 84-107. 

Clark, J.P. Interesting Account of Thomas Anderson, a Slave, Taken from His Own Lips.n.p.,         1854