Diagnostic Essay
	The following two readings of Paul Roberts’ “How to Say Nothing in 500 Words” and the UNC Writing Center’s discussion of the five-paragraph essay transpires a perception of how our writing has become so sympathetic and how high school writing is an entirely different world from college writing. These ideas are supported by broad examples and in-depth points. I believe these two readings have great intentions and it's the honest truth to our writing, but I also believe that there is much more going on than just sympathetic and distinctive writing. Another problem besides the “Five-paragraph essay” is the simple, weekly silent sustained reading log.
Through preschool to the tail end of our senior year in high school, we all have to deal with the weekly silent sustained reading log. This reading log wants the usual and traditional information about what you're reading through the week, such as how many pages are read, the title of the book, and a sentence or two about what you read. The information this reading log doesn’t allow students to get the complete experience of their book. For instance, when I was in my sophomore year in high school a classmate went out of his way and did three weekly SSR reading logs because he said that one reading log wasn’t enough to express and display what his book was truly about. Now in college, you are given an entry for a five-page article that isn’t even comparable to an actual chapter book. The reading of the UNC Writing Center’s discussion 
of  the five-paragraph essay also, presents how high school essays are entirely different from college essays. For instance, it states, "While high school courses tend to focus ”just the facts”—college courses ask you to think about the how and the why.” This presents the same difference between the SSR fill outs and the college entries. Furthering on, the simple weekly silent sustained reading log also motivated students to just cheat and write whatever they think the book was about. In my senior year of high school, my English teacher told me about a student that would always write random information about a book that he had not even read yet, but she caught him when he wrote about a book that my teacher had already read. This proves that students aren’t taking these simple reading fill outs serious because it asks for information that is effortless to think of. The reading of Roberts’ “How to Say Nothing in 500 Words” also presents how students start finding shortcuts to the finish line. For instance, it states, “Four hundred and fifteen. Well, you still have the conclusion, and when you retype it, you can make the margins a little wider.” This is important because students start to look for shortcuts in effortless work and this leads to guessing or playing with the system. The simple weekly silent sustained reading fill out and the five hundred word essay turns into some really hectic objective that causes students to go out of their way and cut corners to finish on time. Looking back at the assignments that could be done without any shortcuts the students still tend to cheat. 
	In conclusion, the following two readings of Paul Roberts “How to Say Nothing in 500 Words” and the UNC Writing Center’s discussion of the five-paragraph essay presents an idea of how our writing has become so sympathetic and how high school writing is an entirely different world from college writing, but there is still more to just those sympathetic writing problems. 

Work Cited 
Roberts, Paul. How to Say Nothing in 50 Words. http://removed-this-url.com/. 	       	Accessed 27 Aug. 2017.

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. “College Writing.” The Writing Center, 			www.writingcenter.unc.edu/tips-and-tools/college-writing/. Accessed 28 Aug. 2017.