








The Missouri Compromise: Encyclopedia Entry
	In 1819, Missouri applied to join the Union as a slave state, which triggered a crisis because it interfered with the balance of slave and free states in the Union. Tensions had already been rising over slavery, so the way Congress chose to respond was critical to the future of the nation. After months of debate, Indiana senator Jesse Thomas proposed the Missouri Compromise in January of 1820, which allowed Missouri to join the Union as a slave state while Maine came in as a free state, and slavery was outlawed north of the 36° 30´ latitude line.
	When Missouri applied for statehood, Congress was completely divided on the issue. On February 13, 1819, James Tallmadge of New York proposed the Tallmadge Amendment which would prohibit new slaves in Missouri and emancipate slaves already there when they reached the age of twenty-five (Faragher 601). The House of Representatives supported this amendment, but the Senate opposed it. The main concern was whether Congress had the right to prohibit slavery as a condition for admission to the Union, and if so, whether it was wise to exercise this power. Northerners believed that Congress did have the power to prohibit slavery in a new state, while Southerners believed the question of slavery should be left to the state as it always had been (“The Missouri Compromise”). Many Missourians adamantly opposed the amendment, and mobs of slaveholders started threating to kill any person who spoke a word against slavery. However, Tallmadge stated that it was absolutely necessary because Europe was watching the United States, and allowing slavery would be inconsistent with the U.S. Constitution (Forbes 42-44). 
	On December 21, the bill for Maine’s admission to the Union was presented to the House, and Jesse Thomas proposed the Missouri Compromise in which “Missouri would be admitted to the union as a slave state, but would be balanced by the admission of Maine” and “slavery was to be excluded from all new states in the Louisiana Purchase north of the southern boundary of Missouri” (“The Missouri Compromise”). At first some people, such as Representative John Holmes, argued that the debates over Missouri and Maine were two entirely separate matters and that it was unfair to connect the two, but the bill was finally passed by a small margin on March 3, 1820. Though it had its flaws, many saw it as “an imperfect but unavoidable expedient to salvage the Union” (Mason 3).
	Another issue broke out when Missouri submitted its state Constitution for Congress to approve. The document contained a clause that prohibited freed African Americans from entering the state, which was unconstitutional. Kentucky Representative Henry Clay developed another compromise in which “Missouri could retain the offensive clause in its own constitution if it pledged never actually to implement it with specific enabling legislation. The Missouri legislature accepted this prohibition, and the state was finally admitted in August 1821” (Seager 8). 
	The road to the Missouri Compromise was a long, drawn out process, and it had several effects on the United States, both good and bad. It postponed the Civil War by limiting the spread of slavery and ended the Era of Good Feelings that country had been in since the War of 1812. It also set a precedent that Congress was now dealing with slavery rather than leaving it completely up to state legislature. The Compromise also affected Northern politics because Northern politicians who supported it were viewed as slavery supporters and were called “doughfaces,” even though they considered the Missouri Compromise as the only solution to “secure the preservation of the Union and the admission of Maine” (Mason 683). In 1854, the Kansas-Nebraska Act repealed the Missouri Compromise by allowing Kansas and Nebraska to decide for themselves whether to allow slavery.
