Low-Carbohydrate Diet: The Solution to Obesity?
Today one out of every four Americans is considered obese (Canavan 1). In response to this, many Americans have attempted to eat healthier and exercise more. A variety of diets have claimed to be the solution to obesity and to provide healthy weight loss. However weight loss should not be the only thing taken into account when considering whether a diet is healthy or not. One must ensure that a diet provides the proper energy and nutrients needed by the person partaking in the diet.Atkins, Paleo, and Ketogenics are a few popular diets that attain weight loss through a low-carbohydrate diet. Typically low-carb diets recommend 20-90 grams of carbohydrates per day, as opposed to the daily recommendation of 275 grams (Tapper-Gardzina et al. 53). In order to see what cutting out carbs does to the body, the uses of carbs must be understood. Of the three macronutrients, carbohydrates is the only one that can be used to power the brain, is the quickest macronutrient to break down to fuel the body, and is the only macronutrient to bring certain nutrients into the body like fiber. Furthermore, a diet that lessens its carbohydrate intake will in turn increase the amount of fat and protein intake. Although weight loss does occur on these low-carbohydrate diets, these diets do not supply the body with all of the necessities it needs to function. Besides lacking essential nutrients, the additional proteins and fats can have harmful effects on the body. 
	Limiting the amount of carbs one eats will starve the brain of its fuel and may lead the body to a state of ketosis where ketones form from fatty acids. Ketones can fuel the brain but are not as efficient as readily available glucose that comes from the breakdown of recently eaten carbs. Negative effects can be seen in the article “Could Low-Carb Diets Deprive Your Brain of Fuel?” which discusses a study performed by Tuft researchers. A group of women, half of which went on a reduced calorie diet and the other half went on a low-carb diet, were tested on their short and long term memory, spatial memory and visual attention before, during and after the diet. The results concluded those that were on a low-carb diet had slower reaction times as well as lower scores on their memory tests (1). This explicitly shows the slugging effects on the cognitive ability when a brain is deprived of a carbohydrates. 
Carbs are not only essential in fueling the brain, but they also play a key role in fueling the body for workouts of mid to high intensity. When the body lacks carbs, the human body reserves to the breaking down of proteins for fuel which is neither as efficient nor as healthy, as carbohydrates are. When the body gets to the stage of breaking down proteins it is actually in starvation mode which is not healthy to workout in. Not only is it unhealthy to exercise on a carb deprived stomach, but performance decreases. This claim is supported by the study in the article, “Effects of a low- or a high-carbohydrate diet on performance, energy system contribution, and metabolic responses during supramaximal exercise”. Six men with backgrounds in high intensity training were used in the study. Their baseline time to exhaustion (TTE) was found and then half were assigned a high-carb diet and the other half a low-carb diet. “In conclusion, we showed that a low-CHO [carb] diet significantly reduced TTE [time to exhaustion] during supramaximal exercise, but that a high-CHO diet did not improve performance” (Lima-Silva et al.). This proves the negative physical effects that low-carb diets have on performance during higher intensity workouts. 
A danger of going into starvation mode has to do with the calcium in the human body. 	“Researchers have shown that high-protein foods negatively affect excretion of urinary calcium. When protein intake doubles from recommended levels, calcium excretion increases by as much as 50%, perhaps facilitating osteoporosis development (Tapper-Gardzina et al. 55). The result of over consuming protein, which is a result of low-carb diets can have drastic effects on the body’s bone structures. Osteoporosis actually means “porous bone” and is a condition where bones become weak and brittle (National Osteoporosis Foundation). The article goes on to describe a study, “In a 3-month study of adolescents using a ketogenic diet for weight loss, bone mineral density decreased significantly in spite of vitamin D and calcium supplementation” (Tapper-Gardzina et al. 55). The fact that bone density is decreasing even though sufficient vitamin D and calcium supplements are used reveals the danger of a low-carb diet. The body excretes calcium faster than calcium can be used when too much protein is consumed. Avoiding low-carb diets can help maintain bone density and keeps one from over consuming protein. 
In the same way that low-carb diets increase the amount of protein that is consumed, low-carb diets increase the amount of fat that is consumed. The problem with eating too many fats is it increases the chance of that person to get a heart disease or even some forms of cancer. This is why the American Heart Association doesn’t recommend the use of low-carb diets (“Low-Carb Diets: Going against the Grain” 3). This makes sense as fats hold a lot of bad cholesterol that will clog arteries and lead to various cardiovascular diseases. This is certainly not a favorable trade off for the quick weight loss of a low-carb diet. Frankly, the rapid weight loss of low-carb diets is a result of the loss of water weight that is stored in carbs. As carbohydrates are used up, they release water that is then excreted from the body. This gives the impression to people on low-carb diets that they are dropping fat fast, while in reality they are just dropping water weight.  
Diets that reduce carbohydrates severely limit the intake of fruits and vegetables with a higher amount of carbohydrates. The problem with this does not have to with the carbs but the vitamins, fiber, and antioxidants that fruits and vegetables provide. Consuming these things aid the body in some bodily function but more importantly lower the risk for many diseases and conditions such as some forms of cancer, strokes, diabetes, obesity as well as lower cholesterol (Tapper-Gardzina, Y, et al. 56). Losing key vitamins and minerals is not worth losing a few pounds especially when healthier dieting options exist. A common belief is that people on the diet can take supplements in place of fiber and vitamins that vegetables provide but there is much concern about the sufficiency of supplements when compared to real fruits and vegetables.  	 	Obesity is certainly a problem in America; however, low-carb diets are not a feasible solution as more healthy, sustainable diets exist. The use of low-carbohydrate diets can not only have negative mental and physical effects but also give the illusion of initial rapid weight loss. Additional weight loss beyond the initial drop causes the diet to appear successful but new health problems would come in the future and those clearly exceed weight loss. Therefore, be conscientious about current dieting fads such as these low-carb based diets as evidence shows they do more harm than good in the long run.   




Works Cited

Canavan, Maureen E., et al. "Community Factors Related to Healthy Eating & Active Living in 
Counties with Lower Than Expected Adult Obesity Rates." BMC Obesity, vol. 3, 18 Nov. 
2016, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s40608-016-0129-x.
"Could Low-Carb Diets Deprive Your Brain of Fuel?." Tufts University Health & Nutrition 
Letter, vol. 27, no. 1, Mar. 2009, p. 8. EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direc 
t=true&db=rzh&AN=105467152&site=ehost-live.
“Learn What Osteoporosis Is and What It's Caused By.” National Osteoporosis Foundation, 
www.nof.org/patients/what-is-osteoporosis/.
Lima-Silva, Adriano E., et al. "Effects of a Low- or a High-Carbohydrate Diet on Performance, 
Energy System Contribution, and Metabolic Responses during Supramaximal Exercise." 
Applied Physiology, Nutrition & Metabolism, vol. 38, no. 9, 2013 Dec, pp. 928-934. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1139/apnm-2012-0467.
"Low-Carb Diets: Going against the Grain." Food Insight, 2004 Nov-Dec, pp. 2-5. EBSCOhost, 
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rzh&AN=106640721&site=ehost-live.
Ronald, Krauss M., et al. “AHA Dietary Guidelines.” AHA Scientific Statement, 
doi:102:2284–2299
Tapper-Gardzina, Y, et al. "Should You Recommend a Low-Carb, High-Protein Diet?." Nurse 
Practitioner, vol. 27, no. 4, Apr. 2002, pp. 52-59. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/logi n.aspx?direct=true&db=rzh&AN=106926564&site=ehost-live.
