Protection of the People with U.S. Constitution 
	From the time surrounding the 1780s, Americans progressively grew fearsome of the probability in which their government would rob them of their freedom. After the first American rebellion of Lexington and Concord, an attempt by the British to obtain an authoritative central government, American citizens became completely hypercritical of every tax, every law, every thought in which the government could think of, to protect themselves from the reoccurrence. Once the United States Constitution was inaugurated, people were then guaranteed the right to their freedom, speech, equality, and much more in which the protuberant threat of their worries diminished. 
	To ensure fairness by every state in America, each house will take proprietorship over all individual state’s votes during elections. Article I Section 5 acknowledges how “Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections […] and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business…” (US Constitution). This section clearly gives citizens their right to vote and have a say in what the government does, sans them solely forcing something new and offensive to the people. The government can no longer be allowed to pass something new without the majority approval of the people; in which they will be fully capable of comprehending and concluding their own pros and cons of the next possible regulation. Article I adequately depicts the layout of how our government will be appointed, maintained, and ensured stability and liberty for the country. 
	After the Constitution was established, there were times where it became challenged as other laws were enforced in contradiction to the rights. In 1798, the Alien and Sedition Acts illegalized the right to speak or act against the government, coming as far as sending journalists to jail if they made any remark of negative connotation towards their government (Class Lecture). This statement is declared in the first amendment affirming, “Congress shall make no law […] abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances” (US Constitution). This action provoked many forms of defiance by the people along with much terror because of the uncertainty of level of power the government held. 
However, this defying of laws ultimately brought upon a new consideration of the essential meaning for freedom of speech and the press. The federalists in Congress argued that the words of the First Amendment were defined as only controlling the government from stopping censorship before speeches or writing was produced. John Nichols, a congressman, then proclaimed why the government should even have the power to punish those whose simple intentions are to inform the voters of who they will be electing. This debate was settled after the election of Thomas Jefferson in 1800, as he confirmed the meaning of freedom of speech anew, by restoring Americans rights “to think freely and to speak and write what they think" (Class Lecture). This led, once again, residents to enjoy their lives fully, and without having to carefully examine what they can or cannot do.
Another representation as having the Constitution as less of a threat to the people, considers their capability of not allowing people to barge in to a person’s comfort of home, without warrants provided by the courts. This goes forth into action by two separate amendments recognizing that “No soldier shall, in time of piece be quartered in any house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law,” revealing in the third amendment, and in the fourth, again asserting in other words, “The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses […] but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched…” (US Constitution). These amendments give people the relief of feeling secure and ease in their own property which in all, provokes an amount of freedom set for Americans in which they can rely on.
The United States Constitution carefully considers each aspect the government should appeal to and examines the volume of leeway to provide to Americans without the worry of continuous rebel from random motives of cruel punishment and without introducing an abundance of power. In understanding Americans past responses with tremendous changes, they gradually induce the alterations of the Constitution, before completely showing full form. Our Founding Fathers put a great deal of time and effort and contemplation of how much and little power to give mutually the people and the government; both with ample amounts of power yet not enough to construe another war, attack, or rebellion.
