Rhetorical Devices used to Address Issues
In the essay “Letter to My Daughter” the author Maya Angelou illustrates her life experiences and how they shaped her identity. She describes the struggles growing up in a segregated area. There was racism in Arkansas, but this didn’t make her feel inferior. Angelou feels like people never grow up even though they leave their home and move to different places. She states that there is no growing up because individuals remain the same as they were when they were children. She relates with her grandmother as a philanthropist, one who gives to those in need. When she moves with her mother she notices the difference between the two and begins to question herself. She ends up feeling unsatisfied with her body and makes a decision that results in a pregnancy. Even when things seemed bad Angelou was met with the support from her family. (24). The audience for this book is likely to be young mothers that may be struggling since the title of the book shows that the author was writing to a daughter she never had. It is Angelou’s story that deals with various issues like racism and teen pregnancy during a time social injustices. Angelou uses foreshadowing to give an overview of the story and also uses analogies to help the readers understand. Her word choice makes the story memorable but also helps her connect to the reader.
Maya Angelou’s excerpt is broken up into 4 sections, each with its own topic that foreshadows and builds on her story. The sections start off broad only providing hints of what will be later discussed in detail. Sometimes ideas aren’t fully developed and only a preview is presented. This helps the reader’s curiosity grow by considering what the author actually means. It keeps the readers engaged in a sequence of events in order to convey emotions instead of logic. 
Angelou doesn’t focus on logos to persuade her audience instead she relies on the emotion of readers. The only use of logos would be in the first section labeled “Home” (Angelou, 5). In this section Angelou begins to list facts and data about herself. She lists her close family members and places she has lived in. It’s brief and makes the essay easy to understand but then a shift occurs. The author ends her spree of facts and informs the reader that they are meaningless to a child (Angelou, 5). Once the facts stop Angelou begins to appeal to emotions by discussing messages about life and who we are. The use of logos for a brief moment serves the purpose to draw the reader into the essay. It gives confidence to readers by providing information that is quick to digest. Appealing to the reader’s intellect keeps them focused. The switch from logos only makes the reader engaged to discover what the author is trying to say.
	There are two phrases in the first section of the essay which provides a general suggestion on what Angelou will discuss. The first one is the way the grandma is described which is being a “paternal grandmother” (Angelou, 5). It gets the reader's attention but not for long since no other information indicates the importance the grandma has on Angelou. An emotional link is created with the use of the word paternal which can cause the reader to form assumptions about the author’s life. At first only the grandma, uncle, and brother are portrayed. This makes it seem like the author has no parents but that’s not the case. In the second phrase Angelou mentions “the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home” (6) which can be broken down into three parts. The shadows are the struggles growing up in a region with racism. While the dreams depict a time where one feels happy like Angelou living with her grandma. The last part that has to do with the dragon is a reference to a major change like moving away from Arkansas and getting pregnant at a young age. Angelou is able to suggest the affection of a parent figure and the various stages of life that include happiness and setbacks. Taking these two phrases into consideration will guide the reader to understand the messages Angelou is trying to portray.
The author makes a comparison between charitable and philanthropist. She describes herself as a “lover of mankind” (Angelou, 14) instead of a philanthropist. This analogy is used as a comparison of giving but there is also a distinction. The distinction of not being a philanthropist is probably because Angelou doesn’t see herself as a person with a great deal of money. She wants readers to relate with her by showing them that they too can give what isn’t material things but kind actions. This analogy doesn’t just create common ground between the speaker and reader, it provides credibility by defining philanthropy and citing organizations that give. The organizations that give to charity like “the Red Cross, Salvation Army, Goodwill” (Angelou, 11) are cited in order to create respect. This respect is a result of the reputation that the organizations have of providing support to those in need. The respect for these organizations is what Angelou want readers to have towards charitable people that aren’t necessarily philanthropist.
 In the third section labeled “Revelations” (Angelou, 17) pathos is used in the events that led up to Angelou’s pregnancy. The day is described to be busy that Angelou decides to go somewhere quieter. The author wants to create this mood to make her life realistic that she too has unpleasant days. Her use of diction at the beginning of this chapter provides the reader with imagery of her surroundings. The vehicles and sounds describe the “enormity of the day” (Angelou, 17) which she wants to escape. With this disorderly day the mood changes to joyful as the author’s perspective of life changes. The introduction of a child is described by Angelou with words of hope and how it was “the greatest day of her life” (Signature). Informing the reader about the situation she was in helps the reader know the severity of the situation. In the section “Giving Birth” (Angelou, 23) she goes into details about explaining the pregnancy to her parents. Her mother provides encouraging words which create a bond between mother and daughter that readers may relate to. 
Angelou employs analogies throughout the excerpt to enhance the reader's understanding but also emphasis certain points. Angelou mentions the preacher who preaches “to the already committed choir” (11) which is also something she relates to through writing. It would be difficult to understand Angelou’s motive without having a reference to compare the way writing encourages people who already do an action that Angelou supports. Using the preacher as an allusion also reveals the author’s religious background. Just mentioning a religious figure can bring empathy. Another analogy used which is also an allusion involves “John the revelator” (Angelou, 17). John is the author of the book of revelations which is about suffering. Angelou mentions John to express herself implicitly that she suffered when she became pregnant. The reference to a religion shows the author’s religious side but also reveals the possibility of an audience that is also religious. Understanding the reference of John the revelator would require research if someone with no religious experience knew who this person was and how it related to Angelou’s story. 
Perhaps the main use of rhetoric in Angelou’s writing is her use of diction and the way it evokes imagery. The appeal to emotion is evident throughout the excerpt. The focus is precise like when describing her “paternal grandmother” (Angelou, 5) which is used multiple times. The way in which the grandmother was introduced demonstrated some foreshadowing but the words used provide an emotional appeal to the reader. The way in which Angelou describes her grandma shows the bond between the two. Angelou’s grandma is the closest person she has growing up and even imitates her. The love and affection is then broken when Angelou moves with her mom and leaves her grandma’s home “a world away” (12). The image of being away from a loved is to make the reader visualize the impact a change in life can have on a child. Children might have moved a lot during Angelou’s childhood and she wanted to express the emotional toll it can have. 
The use of rhetorical devices can be compared to people of similar time periods which could have been addressing similar issues. In the article “‘I Have A Dream’: A Rhetorical Analysis” the author Durthy A. Washington analyzes Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s speech which has similar rhetorical devices that Angelou uses. Just like Washington mentions MLK’s contrast between past and present, Angelou does the same thing by describing and difficult past but a bright future she expected. MLK focuses on pathos so emotions can “touch their hearts” (Washington, 17) and doesn’t rely on logos. The use of pathos has a greater impact on the audience because it creates a bond between speaker and audience. Angelou intentionally focused on pathos instead of logos in order to get her reader to feel the emotions she had during major events in her life. 
Other instances where she tries to relate to readers who may have had similar childhoods is the disconnection she had with her mother. Angelou was “never called beautiful” (13) or “daughter” (13) which gives more information on a rough childhood she must have had. Although Angelou might have lived with her grandmother she probably just felt like a “shadow” (6) and couldn’t discover her identity. The affection Angelou received by her mother after finding out that she was  pregnant makes it a special moment. This care grew to show readers that a child can bring the hope in life. 
Civil rights weren’t the only issues Angelou was responding to through her writing. The article “Covering National Concerns about Teenage Pregnancy: A Visual Rhetorical Analysis of Images of Pregnant and Mothering Women” the author Jenna Vinson analyzes the use of white pregnant teens in contrast to pregnant teens of color and how teen pregnancy shifts focus towards race. Angelou’s response to teen pregnancy could be a result of “negative portrait of teenage motherhood” (Vinson, 141). In order to make teenage pregnancy seem less negatively Angelou focused on the positive of having a child and how it brought joy to her life. Her child gave Angelou “enough courage to invent” (18) her life. Although teen pregnancy started to signal “race and class” (Vinson, 150), Angelou didn’t want her audience to feel bad if they found themselves in her situation. 
Some of Angelou’s early struggles had to do with racism. The use of words like “surrender” and “submission” (Angelou, 5) show she was constantly being brought down by social injustices. There was no sign of respect towards older people instead surrender. This word choice displays the perspective of a child where everyone was on top of her and felt powerless. Even when Angelou describes the grown ups she saw daily, she furthers her message that they too felt restricted by having to yield to white people. It shows a social hierarchy and how harsh it was growing up as a person of color. The author wants to express her emotions to display the restrictions that racism had.  
Angelou is probably providing a theme when she says “find her own place” (6) which is describing an area where a person can control because the world has many things out of our reach. This phrase could go deeper by suggesting that one must find their identity and who they are by going “inside ourselves” (Angelou, 7). If we were to ignore everything around us and focus on ourselves we may find peace. This makes the reader question their own life and think about themselves by reflecting as if they were praying or meditating. She says other people are “mysterious apparitions” (Angelou, 6) and a child is an “enfranchised citizen” (6). These two quotes can mean that Angelou must have felt alone during her childhood and also responding to equal opportunity during a time of civil protests. This environment could have affected many people that felt helpless, 
Although Angelou’s diction can be uplifting it can also be dark like when she describes her one time relationship with a boy. She views her “body’s betrayal” (Angelou, 18) and this shows she was self-conscious and unsatisfied with herself which led her to “the wrong choice” (Angelou, 18). This give emphasis to the situation and its seriousness. In an interview called “Conversations with Maya Angelou” the interviewer Claudia Tate is told by Angelou that her writings are always a response to protests of some kind of issue. Something like body image is crucial and a concern Angelou is probably trying to address (Angelou & Tate).
Maya Angelou uses several rhetorical devices to connect with readers and express her thoughts on social issues. Her use of foreshadowing and analogies helps readers understand the story while dictions creates an emotional appeal. 



















Works Cited
Angelou, Maya, and Claudia Tate. "Conversations with Maya Angelou." Poetry Criticism, edited by Ellen McGeagh, vol. 32, Gale, 2001. Literature Resource Center, http://removed-this-url.com/ Accessed 13 Sept. 2017. Originally published in Conversations with Maya Angelou, edited by Jeffrey M. Elliot, University Press of Mississippi, 1989, pp. 146-156.
Signature. “Excerpt: ‘Letter to My Daughter’ by Maya Angelou.” Signature Reads, Penguin Random House, 9 July 2015, http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. 
Vinson, J. "Covering National Concerns about Teenage Pregnancy: A Visual Rhetorical Analysis 	of Images of Pregnant and Mothering Women." Feminist Formations, vol. 24 no. 2, 2012, 	pp. 140-162. Project MUSE, doi:10.1353/ff.2012.0017
Washington, Durthy A. “‘I HAVE A DREAM’: A RHETORICAL ANALYSIS.” The Black Scholar, vol. 23, no. 2, 1993, pp. 16–19. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/41068415.
