Kim Kardashian Tells Hollywood Her Secret Behind Her Blonde Hair

You will never believe it. 
			
														
Kim Kardashian never seems to have the same hair, nails, or sense of fashion for long. As recently she has been spotted in Calabasas with a new fresh look. She has recently dyed her hair platinum blonde, and after talking to her stylist we have all of Kim’s tricks and secrets on how she mastered this look. 

As to why Kim decided to change her dark hair in for a new look. It is said that she wanted to please her husband. Kanye recently released a song called Blondie which inspired Kim to make the change in her life. This change in her life makes people wonder if Kim made the decision to try to fit into Kanye’s culture. Kim’s sister Khloe is dating a famous basketball player, she also has changed her wardrobe and style since dating him. Many question if the girl’s motives include pleasing themselves or if they are simply trying to impress their significant other. 

At the Beverly Hills Hair Salon Kim let celebrity stylist Jen Atkins change her hair. After talking to Jen, we learned her secret on how she got Kim’s hair so platinum blonde, “Well Kim’s hair took many hours to do because of how long and thick it is, but my special technique involves using lemon juice. Often young girls hear about this beauty trick, but it really does work. The only thing that is different is that I use special lemons that are grown right here in the salon. They are treated with special water and chemicals that help with the dying process. For Kim, I had to use at least a dozen lemons to get the color that she wanted. I squeeze the lemons by Kim’s roots and let the juice sit for an hour and then washed it out.” Next time you head to your local salon, ask your stylist if they are following the new hair technique that involves these special lemons. 
	







The Selfie Queen has been seen going back to the salon at least three times a week for root touchups. The upkeep on her light roots is time and money consuming. Fortunately, she has both at her disposable. 

Recently after Kim dyed her hair, her mother Kris Jenner followed in her footsteps. Does this mean that Kim really is the favorite child of Kardashian family? Inside family friend Jonathan Cheban told TeenVogue, “Kris is the closest with Kimberly. They often shop and go to the salon together. It is no surprise that Kris also dyed her hair to match Kim.”


















If you want to follow Kim’s newest trend you better act fast, because you never know how long it will last.
