
Going through life you are often placed in many different roles. These roles could have been placed on you at birth, or they could have been something you worked hard to earn. Throughout my daily life I play a numerous number of roles. These roles each come with their own positives and negatives attributes, but each contribute to the person I am today. I am a sister, a woman, a college student, extremely fortunate, and a waitress. 
When I was born eighteen years ago one of my first roles placed on me was being a sister. First it was only being a younger sister but fast forward five years, and I was also a big sister. This role was one of my favorites when I was younger and continues to be one of my favorite today. Growing up, I played with my brothers most days as they were the people around me. This has impacted my identity immensely. I think my personality is more straight forward and less dramatic because I grew up with brothers. I always steered clear of drama in high school, and today I continue not to get involved with petty drama because it has never been something that has appealed to me. Also as a big sister I know my younger brother watches what I am doing. This helps to keep me focused because I know that someone at home is looking up to me. I could not imagine my childhood and my daily life without my two brothers. 	
When the ultrasound technician told my parents, they were having a girl they were overwhelmed with emotion. After already having one boy they were hoping for a baby girl. Before I was even in the world I was already placed into a social category. Throughout the years, being a female has not been something that has constricted me. West argues that, “In virtually any situation, one’s sex category can be relevant” (180). I do not believe that has been the case in my life. Growing up my parents would support me in everything I wanted to do. I was enrolled in dance classes but was not intrigued after the first class. I wanted to play soccer, so my mom enrolled me. I continued to play up until I was seventeen. My parents never gave off the impression that I should be in a dance class or playing with Barbie’s, instead my parents were enthusiastic when I wanted to play sports with all the boys. Growing up in the 20the century, I have been fortunate that the role of gender has never constricted my life. I am proud to be a woman.
After being at college for six weeks I have learned more here than I have in my twelve years in the public education system. This role of a college student was something that I worked extremely hard to achieve and maintain. This role came with studying to maintaining a high GPA in high school, taking honors courses, participating in sports and clubs, and taking the SATs (multiple times). I am especially proud to be here in the nursing program. College has impacted my identity by adding different responsibilities that I did not have in high school. The past few weeks have taught me displine regarding my school work and personal life. There are so any distractions here that it is easy to steer away from doing your work, but I have learned that the only way you are going to do well in the class is if you are keeping up with the work. This displine is relevant in and out of the classroom. It is seen in order to stay healthy and be happy. Being a college student is a role that I placed on myself, but I couldn’t imagine it any other way. 
	Since I can remember, I know that I am extremely fortunate in my life. Joao Alhanati says, “The Urban Institute defined the middle class as adults with size-adjusted household incomes of between $30,000 and $100,000 for families of three” (1). I say as a child I was very privileged, and continue to have privilege today. I never had to worry about money or anything in that regard. This has lead me to so many of the opportunities I have today. I do not think that this privilege defines me, yet it has led to many activities that have shaped me as a person. Without my parents, I would not be able to afford college all on my own. I am also lucky that while I am in college I do not have to hold a job, as this then gives me more time to focus on my studies. This social category impacts my identity because it correlates to the amount of opportunities that I have in my other social categories. In regard to college the opportunities are limited without a stable finical background. I am extremely fortunate for my hard-working parents who continue to help support me both emotionally, finically, and everything in between. 
Anyone who has worked in a variation of customer service knows what it is like to deal with unhappy, angry people. As a waitress, I deal with this regularly while I am on shift. During summers and breaks I work at home at a catering hall. This role has been implicated on myself by myself. I work to give myself some extra money to allow myself to do fun things with my friends and buy myself things I want (like five-dollar lattes from Starbucks). This role has taught me responsibilities and a lot of patience. One time at work a customer was very unhappy with me because there was not Splenda on the table. Unfortunately, we had run out and there was none in the back. When I explained the situation to the customer they decided to take their frustration out on me. Do I have any impact on the amount of Splenda my boss buys and when he buys it? No, I do not. Although I want to react in a negative way, “the customer is always right”. These types of stories are endless as I face peoples anger because they want someone to take it out on. Having this job has provided me with plenty of situations where I have to act with my brain instead of acting with my emotions. From this I often think before I speak, and try to be respectful and understanding with my words. This has taught me an immense amount of patience that I use in my daily life and will use in my profession. 
After learning about all the different roles and categories I fit into hopefully you can get a better idea of why the way I am. The thing that is most important is not how these roles define me but how I define the roles. I choose to be the effector in my life and not let social categories define who I am. Although all these categories impact me in a certain way, I will continue to live my life how I want to. 
















Works Cited
Staff, Investopedia. “Household Income.” Investopedia, 22 May 2007, www.investopedia.com/terms/h/household_income.asp.
West, Candace, and Don H. Zimmerman. Doing gender. Sage, 1997.
