Success Reflection
Dear Dr. Smith,
	Many professors have a similar understanding that when a student is enrolled into an honors program, whether at this university or any other establishment, that particular student must have advanced academic qualities in most subjects if not every. In the specific case of my own, I feel that my only advancement comes in the form of Biology and the other sciences. In the honors program at this university, there are several goals that should be accomplished by the time the students graduate and I am partially terrified that I will not see the day when I accomplish these said goals. With, I understand that the students at this university have an abundance of resources provided to them in attempt to assist them in the processes of learning and in the end, graduating with a degree.  The course that I am currently enrolled in, Foundations for College Writing, is going to be one that I will find to be of extreme help to me in my future at this university and I hope that it will prepare me for the rest of my career. 
	Not only do I feel that I need extra assistance when it comes to learning how to present my thoughts and ideas in a formal setting for my professors but I also feel that help is needed in the department of learning. I am a secondary education biology major with a minor in dance. The next four years of my life are going to be beyond stressful with memorizing bones in the body and the processes of cells but in addition to I was never taught in high school how to learn for understanding, I was only taught how to temporarily memorize and then regurgitate the information onto a test to never be remembered again. However, the professors at this university that I have come into contact with have shown me that they are here to help me succeed and learn what I need to learn. One thing in particular that I am going to find assistance from is the “Habits of Mind” concepts found in an article entitled Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing written by the Council of Writing Program Administers, the National Council of Teachers of English, and the National Writing Project. These habits of mind explain different ways that students not only learn but process information and what the best ways to go about that are (Framework 1). 
	The first habit of mind that I find to be one of the most difficult to work with is the thought of flexibility. This specific definition is having the ability to adapt to whatever circumstances that one is currently dealing with (Framework 5). Not only do I have to be flexible in the aspects of the literal and most common definition. I am a dance minor, I am expected to be able to maneuver my body into ways that require flexibility in my muscles and my joints. But when it comes to the adaption of differences in my school work I am hoping that my professors and other resources on campus can help me. The thought of flexibility also relates to one of the course goals for Foundations of College Writing. By the end of the semester, the hope is that a student has the knowledge and the ability to decipher what a professor wants and is able to distinguish between audiences of certain requirements (Course Syllabus 1). 
	My goal is to not only receive good grades and graduate but also to learn information that will benefit me for the rest of my life. I want to be a teacher, if I didn’t have a passion for learning and education I would be in the wrong field. I hope that I can put my effort and attention into bettering myself in my college experience. The thought of persistence is one that states that a student is willing to try several different ways and approaches to completing a certain task without giving up or walking away (Framework 5). I want to have the persistence to try different ways to learn and understand not only my biology notes and homework but also to understand the different formats of writing and anything else that I may learn. According to Robert Leamnon, the author of Learning (Your First Job) shares different techniques on how a student can learn for understanding and not just learn for memorization. One way that a student can accomplish that goal is to form study groups (8). My personal goal is to meet with people in each of my classes and sit down and review for exams together. Not only will we be able to keep each other focused and on task, but we will also be able to quiz each other and bounce our knowledge off of each other. 
	Another extremely difficult goal for myself that I hope to accomplish is the goal of openness. Stated in the article explaining the habits of mind, openness is the ability to look at things in an unfamiliar perspective and attempt to complete a task in a way that may not be normal for someone (Framework 4). 	For my personal usage of this term, I plan on embracing another topic discussed in the article by Dr. Leamnson. I am not used to doing anything with my written notes from class besides just reading them in attempt to prepare myself for the test that may be coming up. However, I want to be open to trying new ways to look through my notes. Dr. Leamnson says that one of the best ways for a student to learn to understanding is to fill in their notes (8). After I take notes in class, I am to return to my dorm room and really think about what was said during class and review my notes. I should also pull out my textbook and read the section that was taught in class. And then I am to fill in the blank spots in my notes where I may have had questions or didn’t understand certain topics. 
	I am timid and have worries that because I am an honors student, professors are going to expect too much from me. I am weak in my abilities to write and read while my abilities to identify cells or solve an algebraic equation are much stronger. I do have an open mind that towards improving myself not only this semester in this specific class but I also want to improve myself over the next four years so I can be the best possible teacher for my future students. I understand that I need to not give up and I may have to do things that may not be normal to me, but that is how life works out. I am determined to stay in the honors program and to become a better student because of your class and knowledge. 

Sincerely,
Sam Doe
