Enriching the High School Engineering Experience
The dilemma of engineers being high in demand and low in supply is an ongoing critical issue that pushes us to find ways to spark interest in the profession so that we may keep the innovation that drives America going. Many Scholars and Scientists have proposed solutions to this problem such as adding STEM courses to the standard high school curriculum. It has also been proposed that STEM/engineering specific high schools should be built so that the students that attend these schools may narrow their education sooner than college. However by far the most common belief is that root of the problem relates to the way that science and math is taught in schools and consequently call for the reform of teaching methodology in those areas. The theory is that if science and math is taught in a way that is appealing to students, more will be incentivised to choose a STEM pathway. While all of these methods have merit, none of them alone will fix the problem at hand. The most effective solution is to enforce several edited versions of these proposals that are specifically designed to work together. This solution involves reinventing the modern science and math class that are in public schools. To do that, the classrooms must be equipped with the resources to provide students with a way to explore what it is that engineers actually do. Not only that but the curriculum as well as the teachers that surround the classroom must promote this exploration. This will solve engineering dilemma by allowing those who already have some level of interest in the STEM field focus their learning a little bit as well as gaining the interest of people who may not have considered engineering as a pathway for them. 
	The closest we have come to bringing STEM to the public classroom is science and technology focused high schools which are being built all across the United States with the purpose of graduating people fluent in mathematics and science. The funding of these schools comes from the government and the students that attend are either selected via a lottery system, open to the public, or private and application based. Catherine Scott of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill wrote about a study that compared these STEM high schools to that of normal high schools in her article, “An Investigation of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Focused High Schools in the U.S.” In this study she first explains how these schools work and their purpose listing things like hands on technology training as well as several uncommon extra curricular programs offered to students such as a 3-d modeling and animation program and electives like digital systems and circuitry. Scott then shares the results of the study which conclude that, “Students who attended STEM-focused high schools outperformed their peers in mathematics and reading or English on end-of-course assessments”(3) and also noting that the students attending the STEM high schools scored about 13 percent better on average on the standardized tests given to normal public high schools. 
These results are extremely promising but they would be better if they came out of a normal public school. To facilitate this, the funding from the government that is dedicated to the building of schools specializing in STEM and engineering would have to be redirected into bringing these opportunities to the common classroom which would allow for more of a widespread reach to students across the U.S. Not only that but the standard curriculum would also have to change and take up a similar curriculum to the one that these STEM focused schools would have. Lorenzo Salas-Morera discusses this in his article titled, “Improving engineering skills in high school students: a partnership between university and K-12 teachers”. Morera states that skills related to engineering like reading, math and science need to be reinforced during the years prior to students attending a university. He expands on this saying, “This type of curriculum must be focused on design, problem solving, scientific reasoning and ability to learn through inquiry” and that, “These skills should be promoted through activities that reinforce their relationships with physical, life and earth sciences to make useful connections between the natural world and the designed world”(L. Salas-Morera et al. 4). Adopting this style of curriculum will make school courses more engaging for the students. The activities and the fact that they will be learning useful and practical applications of these skills means that by default there will be greater acceptance of the classes. This effect is multiplied by the fact that public school STEM classrooms would be enhanced through the money that would have gone to building STEM only high schools, because the students would have greater and better resources to explore engineering and a curriculum that encourages such exploration. Both of these ideas together would consequently cause the interest in engineering, math, and science to increase overall, and they would also have the side effect of increasing the grades students earn in non STEM related courses such as English, as evidenced by Scott’s study.
	To ensure the success of these classes however, not only does the curriculum have to change and the right technological resources be added, but the instructors need to be prepared to teach these types of courses as well. Which is where these ideas cross over with, and enhances other commonly proposed solutions to the lack of engineers. One such example is the suggestion that the way high school and middle school students are exposed to engineering needs to be reformed. The way scholars want to go about this reformation is to inform the science and math teachers about the various concepts and principles of engineering, through summer workshops such as the one written about in Cheryl A. Page’s article “Enrichment Experiences in Engineering (E3 ) for Teachers Summer Research Program: An Examination of Mixed-Method Evaluation Findings on High School Teacher Implementation of Engineering Content in High School STEM Classrooms”. The goal of this workshop and other like it is to make pre-college teachers more knowledgeable about engineering so that they may be a helpful guide to students that take an interest in the profession. In Page’s article she explains how instructors learned about these engineering principles, saying that the teachers enrolled in this program gained first hand experience in engineering through participating in research activities and lectures relating to the subject. They also took part in discussions that were focused on ways to apply what they have learned into their own teaching. The recorded responses from the teachers show that the experience had a positive impact on their teaching with one saying, “I think one of the major positives that I got out of the program was seeing all the different applications and all the things going on in engineering. Looking at everybody else’s projects, you get an overall vision of possibilities for students...”(Page 5). 
This broadened perspective on engineering is part of the short term effects of this program and while the long term effects are speculated about in this article they are never explicitly mentioned. However they are discussed in a follow up article written about the program. In the follow up article the participating teachers are revisited and questioned on how the workshop they participated in has bolstered their abilities as a teacher. Many of the teachers had positive responses regarding the program saying that since they participated they have been more creative with their lesson plans and that the engineering concepts they introduce into their classroom show the students that they can think analytically and originally to solve problems. The teachers also express that the biggest benefit is that they can be a guidance counselor for the student, since they will be able to give direction to any of their students that are interested in engineering(Robin L. Autenrieth et al. 3). Taking into account both the long term and short term effects of this program, it is easy to see how it could benefit from being put in conjunction with the idea of enhanced STEM classrooms. In the new expanded schools, the teachers would be equipped with the resources they would need to incorporate the aspects of engineering into the science and math classrooms. This gives them greater freedom to create truly engaging lesson plans for the students so that more of them could consider engineering as a career option. Not only that, but since there will undoubtedly be an increase in students that will think about applying under one of the fields of engineering, they will be able to accurately guide them down the path they need to go. Ultimately the idea of STEM classroom expansion works in conjunction with workshops like these to increase the quality of the science and math education experience for high school students. This in turn would produce more engineers and STEM majors in the years following.
	In order for these integrated ideas to take effect however, students need to be interested in the courses from the beginning. To account for this, these classes and the majors they relate to need to be ‘advertised’ to the students through extracurricular activities like internships and workshops that give them a general sense of what it is that STEM jobs offer and whether or not they would like it as a career. These activities would be funded by either businesses willing to invest money in creating these opportunities or hosted by a college’s local engineering department. This is already being done on a small scale. For instance, Rohitha Goonatilake and Rafic A. Bachnak of the Texas A&M International University, or TAMIU, wrote an article recounting a summer engineering program hosted by TAMIU that sought to enhance high school student’s interest in an engineering career. The program accomplishes this objective through all of the features of the program, “such as student competitions, industry site visits and discussions with professional engineers and scientists”(Bachnak, Goonatilake 1). At the end of the program the students were given a survey on their overall experience which included questions about how the experience has affected their interest in engineering. Bachnak and Goonatilake discuss the results of the survey noting that most of the participants expressed that they would seek an engineering degree. These extracurricular workshops do not have to be limited to the summer either, they could be quarter or semester long courses that take place along side school much like organizations such a CART. While alone these workshops will be unable to solve the problems unique to the engineering discipline they play a vital role in increasing interest as a whole, since taking these workshops will give students a reason to take the STEM related courses that would be made available through methods previously mentioned.
	Admittedly, this plan can seem to be a little too complex to work. Some will point out faults of this plan such as it costing too much. Some critics even suggest that increasing the number of engineers has nothing to do with STEM education because the United States is good enough in science and mathematics already and that focusing too much on science and technology can harm other parts of K-12 education. Alexandra Ossola addresses this topic in her article, “Is the U.S. Focusing Too Much on STEM?”. In one section of the article she breaks down how the United States stacks up against the rest of the world concerning science and technology. The preconceived notion is that we are lagging behind other countries such as India, China, and other asian countries. However, what she found was that, “We’re not falling back, some other countries are just rising, and the U.S. is not”(10). To most this would imply that the decline in engineers must stem from something else other than the educational system and that some kids are simply not interested in pursuing this field of study. However, this as well as the other allegations have some flaws that prevent them from disproving this argument. For example, the notion that it would cost too much is counter intuitive, since the government is already funding more expensive projects to accomplish the same goal. Namely, the construction of STEM focused high schools. In fact, the United States President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology(PCAST) openly recommend the, “creation of at least 200 new highly-STEM-focused high schools and 800 STEM-focused elementary and middle schools over the next decade”(Scott 1). If this is a recommended course of action which will undoubtedly cost more than simply expanding pre-existing schools and classrooms, then there is no reason why this plan can not be properly funded. Additionally, the workshops and internships mentioned previously would also be funded out of the students own pocket, or by businesses willing to pay not just by the government. The conception that focusing on STEM education will harm the other fields students may be interested in is also flawed. Catherine Scott’s article showed that a STEM focused curriculum actually improved students performance in all areas including subjects like English(3). Consequently, this plan would also be simultaneously aiding students with interests in other majors, even though its focus will be on engineering and STEM.
 The future of human development rests on those who take it upon themselves to become engineers, physicists, or mathematicians. They discover and manipulate the laws of the universe so that we may enjoy the luxurious lives we lead and without them, we return to the stone age. Creating more engineers is something that is simple in theory but difficult in practice. This is why there are plenty of proposed solutions floating out there on the internet and many more being talked about within the government. What is being overlooked however is that there is not just one solution to the problem, no one magical program to get more people interested. It takes an interconnected effort to accomplish the goal. That is why the plan I have laid out is the best course of action. It covers multiple angles to ensure that it accomplishes its goal. Redirecting the funding from creating STEM only schools to expanding and adding sufficient STEM related courses in normal public school would give students the resources to explore the engineering profession. The summer workshops that give teachers knowledge about engineering enhance the classes that would be added from redirecting this funding. Not only that, but the courses as a whole would benefit from the student STEM education programs since they would build interest in taking the classes which in turn creates more engineers. Regardless of your area of interest, we can all agree that the classroom plays an important role for students in deciding what they want to do with the rest of their life. That is why it needs to be the target of change. With more engagement in the classroom there is a greater chance that more students might become interested in the field of engineering, and with that comes a more prosperous society.
 


Works Cited
Autenrieth, Robin L., et al. "Long-Term Impact of the Enrichment Experiences in Engineering 
(E³) Summer Teacher Program." Journal of STEM Education: Innovations & Research,   vol. 18, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 25-31. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx
?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=122656208&site=ehost-live.
Goonatilake, Rohitha and Rafic A. Bachnak. "Promoting Engineering Education among High 
School and Middle School Students." Journal of STEM Education: Innovations & Research, vol. 13, no. 1, Jan-Mar2012, pp. 15-21. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com
/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=79468710&site=ehost-live.
Ossola, Alexandra. “Is the U.S. Focusing Too Much on STEM?” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media 
Company, 3 Dec. 2014, www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2014/12/is-the-us
-focusing-too-much-on-stem/383353/.
Page, Cheryl A., et al. "Enrichment Experiences in Engineering (E3) for Teachers Summer 
Research Program: An Examination of Mixed-Method Evaluation Findings on High School Teacher Implementation of Engineering Content in High School STEM Classrooms." Journal of STEM Education: Innovations & Research, vol. 14, no. 3, Jul-Sep2013, pp. 27-33. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true
&db=ehh&AN=91248346&site=ehost-live.
Salas-Morera, Lorenzo, et al. "Improving Engineering Skills in High School Students: A 
Partnership between University and K-12 Teachers." International Journal of Technology 
& Design Education, vol. 23, no. 4, Nov. 2013, pp. 903-920. EBSCOhost,doi:10.1007/s
10798-012-9223-7.
Scott, Catherine. "An Investigation of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM) Focused High Schools in the U.S." Journal of STEM Education: Innovations & 
Research, vol. 13, no. 5, Oct-Dec 2012, pp. 30-39. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com
/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=89166313&site=ehost-live.