AMERICANS AND FOOTBALL
Abstract
I am conducting a study on which sport would be a better option for student athletes between flag football and contact football. This is a study based on three categories: injury rate, time consumption, and by asking athletes who have played both versions of the sport which they prefer. The research is aimed to find if most people will prefer football even though its risk for injury, and time consumption will be higher for less time to spend on academics. 
Introduction
	All of us here in the United States have watched a football game on the television before, and have probably seen big hits, or even worse, injuries to players. Last week in the Steelers game a player from each had to carted off the field during the game. A study was done by Haelle (2015) shows the overwhelming amount of injuries that occur from playing contact football. 
	Along with limiting the amount of injuries that occur, it is also evident that flag football would take less time away from the athlete in order to focus on studies or a job. In a study done by Hernandez-Julian (2014), it goes on to show the negative effects playing a sport has on grades and academic work by college athletes. 
My study is to show the benefits of playing flag football over contact football. I want to prove that athletes will agree that flag football in a beneficial alternative to contact football. Every year new rules are implemented into contact football to create a safer environment to the players, while most of these rules fail, as many players are still injured annually. I hope to bring a whole new idea to the table, and show why flag football could be a great alternative. I predict most or all of the subjects will choose flag football over contact football once learning the advantages.

Keywords: Flag Football, Contact Football, Injuries, Academics

Injuries would naturally happen more often in contact football due to repeated abuse on the body from hitting. According to one study I have reviewed, the total number of injuries playing flag football dropped 54% compared to the number of injuries playing traditional full-contact football (Kaplan 2014). The category of injury that was reduced the most by playing flag football was hand and wrist injuries. Flag football is proven to be much safer than contact football. The risk for an ankle sprain or leg injury is still apparent, but the largely reduced hand injury and head injury rate makes the game much safer. 

This is also apparent with the NFL (and other football organizations) stricter rules on blind side hits (hits to a player when he is not looking ahead) and head-first contact. "Most injuries sustained during participation in youth football are minor, including injuries to the head and neck," according to the policy statement of the NFL. Even the National Football League recognizes the sport’s danger. "The incidences of severe injuries, catastrophic injuries, and concussion, however, are higher in football than most other team sports and appear to increase with age." (Haelle 2015). This study shows that football has the highest rate of concussion for any team sport, despite having lower total injury rates than wrestling and gymnastics. 

Football teams usually have very long workouts and practices, making it highly time consuming. Flag football requires less time and ultimately help students in terms of rest, studying for school or college, and for more social time. In a study done by Hernandez-Julian (2014), “Using data from Clemson University, we find a negative association between wins and academic performance.” This study went on to also show that these trends continued outside of the athletic season, and that these trends may even work against women more than men. In this we can conclude that from the long hours of working out and practicing football, grades begin to slip. While there is no evidence for or against flag football, since there would be less need to practice and lift constantly (because the game does not involve hitting, and is played with less players on the field) that the academic performance of flag football players would be higher.
Methodology
This is an ethnographic study, which means a study that scientifically researches people and their cultures. I chose participants for my interviews under one criteria; they had to have played both contact football and flag football. It did not matter how long they had played either version of the sport, as long as they played both. I found thee participants easily through playing Intramural Flag Football at University. I found my final interviewee playing club baseball, as he has played both versions of football. The age range of these participants was from 18-21 years old. I also set up a poll on the popular app Twitter. From the poll I discovered which sport was more popular to my friends and others around me. The results came in majority from high school and college students, with a mixture of other various age ranges up to 50.

I conducted these interviews at a few locations. We usually met at our university’s library, the student center, or in my dorm Building E. I asked them a series of questions for my data. I will use the data I have collected to determine what most players think about both sports. I will compare the benefits of playing flag football to traditional American football through statistics and making inferences on this data. This way the readers can get an understanding of how athletes in each sport think and make conclusions on where each sport has gone wrong. 
I will take all interview responses and create a table of the data, and will do the same with my poll. I will use this to compare each sport’s benefits to the player and the public. 
Results
All of the students reported flag football to have many benefits over contact football. They also all reported to prefer contact football over the flagged version. The students first agreed that flag football was far safer than traditional football. Seven of my interviewees reported that they had an injury that kept them away from the game for two or more weeks. One student Casey Smith says “I cracked a rib once during high school, and I was out for three weeks.” He was the team’s kicker and did not play defense or offense during his career. Riley Johnson claims “I sprained my wrist and had to sit out for two weeks. I hated it.” On top of these two of the students had each tore their ACL tendons. They were both in recovery for a full ten months, and could missed entire seasons during the injury. All nine participants responded to have minor injuries. Most athlete reported sore necks, headaches, and bruises and small pains all over the body. One of the nine students, Kerry Jones had a broken finger during our flag football season that did not heal for 2 weeks. Skyler Williams reports “I twisted my ankle once or twice, but I’m always good to play the next week.” No contact happens in flag football, making it safer.

Another benefit that flag football posed to our athletes was time. Contact football teams often practice for two hours, four to five days a week. On top of this they have games which can last from two to three hours, without including the driving time to the field, and warm-ups. After the long week, on Saturdays the teams meet in the morning and watch film. All nine interviewees reported football taking up ten or more hours of the week. Six students claimed that these conditions had hurt their academic work. Casey Smith, on the other hand, says “Football always motivated me to keep my grades up so I could play on Fridays.” Kerry Jones and Pat Brown claims otherwise saying “It takes away from school work and studying”. On the other hand, we only had three practices for flag football, each only lasting one hour. None of the athletes report having issues with school work during the flag football season. 

With all of the subjects agreeing on the advantages flag football could offer, all still chose contact football as their sport of choice. Harper Miller says “There’s a certain feeling you get when you practice every day and go through hell together on a real (contact) football team. You can’t get that feeling anywhere else.” Bailey Davis tells me “I had too much fun playing football, from the nerves before a game to hitting people, that type of feeling doesn’t come from flag football.” Another three participants reported having adrenaline rushes before and during football games that they do not feel during any other sport.

The Twitter poll showed the same results. The caption of my poll was “Should contact football be replaced by flag football to avoid injuries?” 87% of respondents said no, with 1,022 total votes. This means 889 people chose contact football even with the risk of injury.
Discussion 
	As shown from the study, flag football poses many benefits to the contact version. However, my hypothesis was proven wrong as all of the students still prefered contact football to flag football. Most of the subjects reported that the feeling of contact football cannot be explained unless you experience it, and no other sport would replace it. Some also said letting their aggressions out in the sport is a legal way to help cope with stress physically.

	Every subject I interviewed had agreed that flag football could cut down on the risk of injury. All of the subjects also agreed that flag football could cut down on time spent practicing for the sport, giving them more time for studying, socializing, and resting. It was reported by most of the participants were physically and mentally drained after playing contact football for a full season. After all of this, I figured most athletes would logically agree that flag football would be a great alternative to contact football, but none of the subjects agreed. 

	From all of the interview responses, and from the Twitter poll, I can conclude that people love contact football too much to give it up. Most people can see the obvious benefits that flag football has to offer, but the public is not ready to get rid of the violent sport. 
References
Kaplan, Y., Witvrouw, E., Myklebust, G., Nyska, M., Palmanovich, E., & Victor, J. (2014, April 1). The epidemiology of injuries in contact flag football. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 48(7), 616. 

Hernandez-Julian, R., & Rotthoff, K. W. (2014). The impact of college football on academic achievement. Economics of Education Review, 43, 141+. 

Haelle, T. (2015, November). AAP backs zero tolerance for headfirst hits in football. Pediatric News, 49(11), 8.
