Lights, Camera, Anorexia
	“Lose weight, decrease waist size, become a size zero” are all statements many models hear from their advisors in the fashion industry. Due to the high demands for skinny models by fashion companies, women soon succumb to their requests, forcing the models into a downward spiral of unhealthy eating habits. These habits then develop into eating disorders with serious consequences that include “… decreased body weight, obsessional preoccupation with food, fear of fatness… depression and cognitive impairment” (Siegfried). The consequences are not something to take lightly, many people are sent to the hospital or rehab because of the effects of these disorders. Anorexia, Bulimia and other eating disorders are so common that forty percent of models suffer from these disorders (Nordqvist). With the help of laws that have been put in place by top house fashion companies and countries, public awareness and knowledge on these issues, the end of eating disorders is one step closer. 
Over the years, fashion companies have passed “laws” or so called rules against size zero models. The companies Louis Vuitton and Moet Hennessy (LMVH) and Kering, who individually own Gucci, Saint Laurent and Vuitton et Dior, have promised to stop using ultra-thin models. To further their efforts to end such unhealthy diseases, both companies revealed a charter stating that they will be ensuring the wellbeing of models. In this charter, not only did they make a pledge to stop hiring unhealthy models but to end the use of sixteen-year-old in their campaigns and on the catwalk. Announced on the eve of New York Fashion Week, the new charter made a great impact on the fashion industry and other companies as well(Hosie). LMVH and Kerring are not the only entities taking steps towards improvement with eating disorders, in fact countries like France, Italy, Spain and Israel introduced solutions to end unhealthy habits in models. France now forces models to provide a doctor’s note that states that their body mass index (BMI) is overall healthy when being hired. A company that does not follow this law falls into consequences that include fines that can reach up to eighty-two thousand dollars and six months in jail. With Anorexia affecting thirty to forty thousand people in France, ninety percent of them being woman, these laws will help with those affected (BBC). Italy has also pushed towards the ending of eating disorders in its country. In 2006, the country signed a code, “… calling for more robust body imagery at fashion shows and in advertising campaigns” (“Please). Many companies sided with this code because they did not want to be the reason for someone’s health gone bad. Just like in France, models have to give a certificate that provides their BMI and their age. Unfortunately, in this country there are no enforcements, or in other words, no consequences for breaking this code. There are still so many countries and companies that need to pass such laws to help end the use of unhealthy models. 
Many models have taken the matters of ending anorexia into their own hands. The models provide real life examples on how anorexia affected them and how they got over the disorder through written books and interviews. In the article titled “Former Model Victoire Dauxerre on Speaking out about Her Anorexia Triggered by Fashion Industry,” the author of the article Olivia Blair speaks on Dauxerres modeling career and her struggles with anorexia and bulimia. Surviving on a diet of only three apples a day, Dauxerres soon developed an eight-month long struggle with anorexia which later turned into bulimia. Her weight soon reached forty-seven kilograms, putting her into the hospital (Blair). With Dauxerre on the road to recovery, she writes on her experience and against the stigma of eating disorders by stating, “It is an illness, we don’t choose to have it. It is better to prevent it because it is so hard to grow out of it… it’s not about food at all. It’s about something else… You communicate it with food but it is something else that you have to heal” (Dauxerre). Many other models have spoken out about their journey through anorexia as well. With personal experiences being spread, many others read on the consequences of anorexia and what comes with it. 
Laws and memoirs are not the only thing in place to help end the use of anorexic models. Some companies have taken that extra step by putting in place campaigns that highlight realistic body weights and sizes. This way advertisements do not focus on unrealistic looks but on every day or “every woman” bodies. These campaigns can spread knowledge on anorexia and prove that models do not need to be unhealthy to look good. Aerie is a company that has pushed an “untouched” campaign that challenges model standards. This was a large statement considering the stores customers, a fifteen to twenty-one-year-old demographic, this real body campaign opened the customer’s eyes to realistic looks on models. (Krupnick) In the article titled “Fashion industry urged to use bigger models to curb anorexia”, speaks on the use of ultra-skinny models and the aftermath of using them. The author gives an example of the consequences by stating, “People defaced billboards with Kate Moss saying, ‘anorexia’ and ‘feed me’, Steele recalls of when Moss stormed on to the scene in a Calvin Klein campaign” (“Body). Companies soon realized that people do not want to see these skinny models but someone that looks like an “everyday person”. David Rowlinson, who works with Marks & Spencer, told The Observer, “We want to dress real women not models, and real women are size 14” (“Body). With the use of models who have realistic looking bodies, the public can soon grow to know that anorexia does not have to come with modeling.  
	Through the sharing of personal experiences, passing of laws and the spreading of knowledge on the topic, anorexia is being fought against and forced to end in models. But just because anorexia ends in models does not mean that anorexia will stop there. Many others struggle with the battles of eating disorders. The end is not near for the overall population even though precautions have been taken for models. 


Works Cited
Siegfried, Zahava, Elliot M. Berry, Shuzhen Hao, and Yosefa Avraham. "Animal Models in the Investigation of Anorexia." Physiology & Behavior. Elsevier, 29 May 2003. Web.
Nordqvist, Christian. "Eating Disorders Among Fashion Models Rising." Medical News Today. MediLexicon International, 08 July 2007. Web.
Hosie, Rachel. "Elsewhere, Size Zero Models Banned." Trinuneindia News Service. N.p., 09 Sept. 2017. Web.
"France Bans Extremely Thin Models." BBC News. BBC, 06 May 2017. Web
Dauxerre, Victoire. Size Zero: My Life as a Disappearing Model. N.p.: William Collins, 2018. Print.
"'Please Help Us'; Italian Fashion Officials Will Work to Counter Passion for Thinness among 
Models." The Record: A11. Dec 23 2006. ProQuest. Web. 10 Oct. 2017 .
Krupnick, Ellie. "Aerie's Unretouched Ads 'Challenge Supermodel Standards' For Young Women." The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 17 Jan. 2014. Web.
"Body Beautiful ; Fashion Industry Urged to use Bigger Models to Curb Anorexia." Toronto 
Star: E03. Aug 03 2000. ProQuest. Web. 10 Oct. 2017 .
