The Gap between the Wealthy and the Poor
         Many people believe in the American Dream. They believe that the United States is a land of opportunity and everyone has an equal chance of becoming successful. Many people come to the United States with the hope of having a better life. But that is not necessarily the case. As the wealthy have most of the money in the United States, it is very hard for some people to even come out of their poverty. The poor people will never be able to reach the American Dream that they always worked for because the wealthy run the economy, have better resources, and do not need to work as hard for their money. 
      A problem that many people see in our Country is that the wealthy control the Economy/Government. Many of the wealthy influence what policies or laws are passed. Most of the time they donate to campaigns that favor their interests and desires. But the average citizen does not have any influence on what is being made by the Government. Many wealthy people use the political system in their favor. In the film “Park Avenue: money, power, and the American dream-why poverty?”, it states how George W. Bush raised 1.2 million dollars in 15 minutes at Steve Schwarzman’s fundraiser.  Jacob Hacker from the short film Park Avenue states “Those at the top have done well because they have invested in policies that are favorable to them which helped them do even better and then they turned a lot of that money into politics”. Meaning that many wealthy basically cheat their way into getting more money and this is a great advantage over those who cannot do that. 
       The wealthy have everything they need or want. They have enough money that whenever they are struggling with something they are able to fix it or solve it because they have the resources needed. Many people living in poverty do not have enough money to even eat. In many places, people have to attend food drives to get food, and many times they do not get any because they run out. Many students from low-income families are not able to get a higher education because they cannot afford it. On an article written by Maya Wesby titled “Why the rich stay rich and the poor stay poor” a research was done in Baltimore, tracking 800 students from first grade through their late twenties. It shows that only 4 percent of children from low-income families were able to get a College Education, rather than 45 percent of children from higher-income families. 
       Many of the wealthy people do not really have to do much to earn thousands of dollars. It would take an average person mostly all of his life to earn what a rich person makes in an hour. Many people in the United States who live in poverty work over 40 hours a week but are still not making enough to live a lifestyle that they desire. Their job is most likely not enjoyable, they do not like working all of these hours, they do it because they want to. In an article written by Anthony W. Orlando, he writes about how the rich have much more enjoyable jobs, in which they have better benefits such as promotions, job offers, and bonuses. 
      People who view these topics as wrong propose many arguments. They believe that the harder someone works, the more money they will make. They say that everyone has an equal opportunity and we are all created equal so that means anyone can be rich. Furthermore, they argue that we all go through barriers, and if they are able to overcome them, then you should too. 
  

 However, these views or opinions can be refuted. Many people in the United States work very hard but still do not make enough money. Some people work very hard because their jobs might not be good and cannot find anything better. It is said that we are all created equal, however that does not really mean that we all have the same opportunities. Many children are born into families that live in poverty, and if the family is poor, then the kid will be poor. Rather than a child who is born into a wealthy family, he will be wealthy as well. Meaning from the beginning of their life, one will have an advantage over the other.  That is not equal opportunity. Finally, barriers are in everyone’s life, but it really depends on how or what a person will use to get over them. The poor have a barrier in which they do not have enough money to live a good lifestyle, while the rich have so many different resources that money can buy to help them. 
     In conclusion, the poor people will never be able to reach the American Dream that they always worked for because the wealthy run the economy, have better resources, and do not need to work as hard for their money. Arguments against these topics are mostly opinions that come from others who see these views differently, but facts will prove otherwise. The wealthy will continue to control most of the money in the United States as more money influences decisions that make people richer. 








Works cited 
Charles Wheelan. “It’s Official: In America, Affluence Equals Influence”. www.usnews.com,                      
         April 22, 2014.
Lisa Miller. “The Money-Empathy Gap”. www.Nymag.com, July 1, 2012.
Anthony W. Orlando. “The Rich Aren’t Rich Because They Work Harder. They Work      
       Harder Because They’re Rich!”. www.huffingtonpost.com, February 14, 2014. 
Maya Wesby. “Why the rich stay rich and the poor stay poor”. www.newsweek.com, 
        July 17, 2015.
Park Avenue: money, power, and the American dream-why poverty? Dir. Alex Gibney. Prod.                                        1      Blair Foster. Jigsaw Productions, 2013. Film.
