
Take a Knee

	America throughout this year has experienced a lot of turmoil, turmoil that is not new to but seems so fresh in the minds of many. African Americans in particular have been the victim of this turmoil from police brutality to not even being able to silently protest what they feel is not just. Kapernick is a prime example as of recently how you can not even protest for the sake of change. Kapernick started this movement last year while he was still on his team by simply sitting on the bench while everyone else stood for the national anthem. Gradually he went from sitting an ambiguous stance to taking a knee an iconic pose that has become a trend for fellow African Americans to follow. 
When initially asked about his choice to take a knee he said “He was doing so to show more respect for military veterans”, later he changed his position to “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people, and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street, and people getting paid leave, and getting away with murder “. When he first started this protest thirteen months ago it was not immediately noticed but after press coverage the act became infamous. Choosing infamous as a way to describe this act seems weird, how can a silent protest against racial injustices be negative?, How can standing or in this case kneeling be a slap in America's face? Yet, this is exactly the questions raised towards Kapernick and the initial response was fairly negative even from his fellow African American teammates. Kapernick has been unfairly blacklisted from playing on football teams since his protest become widespread. Our president Trump has been a catalyst for the hate and backlash Kapernick has endured. Digitally targeting Kapernick every other day about how is not a true american and should not be able to play this american sport. 
Hearing this from my supposed president has fueled my hatred towards certain aspects of my home more. How is protesting what you believe in that is logically wrong equals bad american. This brings me to question what a true american is. If a submissive airhead who lets propaganda control how he or she lives their life a true american then I will never be a true american. Being an American should be to stand for your nation's greatness not its timely demise. Racial injustice has not allowed this nation to reach its full potential and I applaud people like Kapernick for being willing to endure that hatred and negativity for the sake of others such as myself.










Works Cited
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/25/opinion/nfl-football-kaepernick-take-knee.html
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/taking-a-knee-national-anthem-nfl-trump-why-meaning-origins-racism-us-colin-kaepernick-a7966961.html
