Ethical Issues Surrounding the Use of Naloxone by Law Enforcement Officers

Abstract
This paper reviews the literature regarding naloxone as well as the implications of the administration of naloxone by law enforcement officers. Ethics will be applied to the review of this topic. Naloxone is a prescribed medication that can reverse an opioid overdose (Davis, Carr, Southwell, & Beletsky, 2015). Without the administration of naloxone within a critical window of time, an overdose will quickly become fatal (Banta-Green, Beletsky, Schoeppe, Coffin, & Kuszler, 2013). Opioid overdoses have been the largest contributor to the 6-fold increase in fatal poisonings in the last few years (Davis, Ruiz, Glynn, Picariello, & Walley, 2014). Training and equipping law enforcement officers with naloxone may help to combat this increase.

Ethical Issues Surrounding the Use of Naloxone by Law Enforcement Officers
	Many studies examine the controversial topic of whether or not law enforcement officers should carry and administer naloxone in an overdose situation. The number of opioid overdoses in the United States continues to increase at a very quick rate. Opioids can be derived from the opium plant or synthetically made; opioids include heroin, synthetic opioids, and prescription painkillers. Use of these drugs can lead to physical dependence and withdrawal symptoms. An overdose of opioids causes respiration to depress, resulting in a limited flow of oxygen to the brain (Davis et al., 2015). An opioid overdose is a time sensitive manner that can become fatal; the longer the brain and the body are deprived of oxygen, the more likely a person is to experience permanent damage or death. An overdose can be reversed by the administration of naloxone within a critical window of time (Davis et al., 2014). Law enforcement officers are often among the first responders to arrive on the scene of an overdose situation (Davis et al., 2015). However, ethical issues must be factored into the consideration of whether or not law enforcement officers should carry and administer naloxone.   
Literature Review
Importance of Naloxone
Heroin takes approximately 20-30 minutes to convert to morphine after administration (Darke & Duflou, 2016). The possibility of permanent damage or even death is dependent on the time following the administration of an overdose. Death as the result of an overdose typically occurs approximately an hour after administration, allowing time for immediate medical care (Banta-Green et al., 2013). Overdose Education and Naloxone Distribution (OEND) programs have become more common nationwide to counteract the current opioid epidemic (Doyon et al., 2016). Part of these programs is the distribution and administration of naloxone. Naloxone is available as either a nasal spray or an injection. Naloxone replaces opioids that are attached to receptors within the brain (Davis et al., 2015). This directly reverses the effects of an overdose and allows oxygen to continue circulating normally throughout the body. 
Law Enforcement as First Responders
	Law enforcement officers are often the first to respond to a scene, even before paramedics or emergency medical technicians (Davis et al., 2014). Some areas lack medical first responders and have long transport times to nearby hospitals. Not only are police typically first on the scene in some areas, they also routinely interact with people that are likely to experience an overdose (Banta-Green et al., 2013). 
Therefore, law enforcement officers are expected to be able to respond to the extremely time sensitive situation being that they are often dispatched to overdose calls. Being equipped with naloxone allows them to potentially administer the life saving drug to someone that may not have time to wait for medical first responders.  
Public Image
Public image of naloxone and events surrounding it can influence the debate on whether police officers should be trained in administering the drug. For example, some people believe that the administration of naloxone can have adverse effects, such as initiating withdrawal symptoms (Neale & Strang, 2015). However, studies have shown that this belief is often due to misinformation. Naloxone has not commonly been shown to have negative side effects (Neale & Strang, 2015). 
Law enforcement involvement in instances of overdoses can also alter the public’s opinion. Witnesses of an overdose may be less likely to contact emergency services if they suspect police involvement (Banta-Green et al., 2013). A study conducted by Pollini, McCall, Mehta, Celentano, Vlahov, & Strathdee showed fear of police involvement to be the second leading cause for people deciding not to call 911 when witnessing an overdose (2006). This can be counterproductive, ultimately increasing the chance of fatality associated with an overdose. Fear of arrest or confiscation of drug paraphernalia may be among the reasons why citizens fear police presence in these situations (Banta-Green et al., 2013). 
Discussion
Ethics in Policing
	Law enforcement officers are expected to have a certain set of characteristics as well as a moral compass. These characteristics include professionalism, empathy, honor, and several others. Law enforcement officers are employed to protect and serve the people. Ethical practice is not only essential for the daily duties of a police officer, but also for liability reasons as well (Wyatt-Nichol & Franks, 2009). Police officers are often trained in ethics, which may include philosophical theories and the encouraged use of values and ethical principles in police practice (Wyatt-Nichol & Franks, 2009). 
To protect and serve are among the highest duties of law enforcement officials; these duties come with obligations. Police officers are obligated to help others to the best of their ability in a time of need. This obligation may include helping the victim of an assault or helping a victim in need of first aid upon arriving at a scene. Therefore, it can be argued that police officers are obligated to help an overdose victim whom is in a critical, life-threatening position.   
Law enforcement officers typically administer naloxone under a standing order, where they are authorized by a medical professional to administer the drug (David et al., 2015). However, most states also have laws or regulations that allow law enforcement to carry naloxone; Pennsylvania is one of the only two states in which law enforcement is permitted to carry naloxone by way of standing order alone (David et al., 2015). David et al. found that the liability risk for officers carrying naloxone is quite low; there is no record of any lawsuits against law enforcement for the administration of naloxone (2015).
Aside from naloxone-specific liability, officers have some general immunity granted to them. This includes immunity from liability for discretionary acts, availability of government-paid representation, and, on the contrary, immunity from liability for failure to administer naloxone (David et al., 2015). This implies that the choice to administer naloxone is up to the discretion of the police officer. 	
Conclusion
	Equipping law enforcement officials with naloxone is only one reactive measure to a problem that should be approached in a preventative way. However, allowing police officers access to naloxone has some benefits as well as some set backs. Further education for both the general public and law enforcement may be necessary in order to address this issue. However, addressing fear of police involvement is crucial in allowing police officers to save lives by administering naloxone. Most states, including Pennsylvania, have enacted forms of overdose immunity laws that grant 911 callers immunity from arrest or charges at the scene of an overdose. This is a major step towards helping the increasing number of victims succumbing to opioid overdose. 
	

References
Banta-Green, C. J., Beletsky, L., Schoeppe, J. A., Coffin, P. O., & Kuszler, P. C. (2013). 
Police officers' and paramedics' experiences with overdose and their knowledge and opinions of Washington State's drug overdose-naloxone-Good Samaritan law. Journal of Urban Health: Bulletin of The New York Academy of Medicine, 90, 1102-1111. doi:10.1007/s11524-013-9814-y
Darke, S., & Duflou, J. (2016). The toxicology of heroin-related death: estimating 
survival times. Addiction, 111, 1607-1613. doi: 10.1111/add.13429
Davis, C. S., Carr, D., Southwell, J. K., & Beletsky, L. (2015). Engaging law 
enforcement in overdose reversal initiatives: Authorization and liability for naloxone administration. American Journal of Public Health, 105, 1530-1537. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2015.302638
Davis, C. S., Ruiz, S., Glynn, P., Picariello, G., & Walley, A. Y. (2014). Expanded access 
to naloxone among firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical technicians in Massachusetts. American Journal of Public Health, 104(8), e7-e9. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2014.302062
Doyon, S., Benton, C., Anderson, B. A., Baier, M., Haas, E., Hadley, L., & ... Welsh, C. 
(2016). Incorporation of poison center services in a state-wide overdose education and naloxone distribution program. American Journal on Addictions, 25(4), 301-306.
Neale, J., & Strang, J. (2015). Naloxone-does over-antagonism matter? Evidence of 
iatrogenic harm after emergency treatment of heroin/opioid overdose. Addiction, 110, 1644-1652.
Pollini, R. A., McCall, L., Mehta, S. H., Celentano, D. D., Vlahov, D., & Strathdee, S. A. 
(2006). Response to overdose among injection drug users. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 31(3), 261-264. doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2006.04.002
Wyatt-Nichol, H., & Franks, G. (2009). Ethics training in law enforcement 
agencies. Public Integrity, 12(1), 39-50. doi:10.2753/PIN1099-9922120103
