
Literature Review for 

We have been searching to find out what is the motive of vehicle theft offenders to commit the crimes. In the article “The Key to Auto Theft: Emerging Methods of Auto Theft from the Offenders’ Perspective” by Heith Copes and Michael Cherbonneau, the authors discover the reasons offenders commit auto vehicle theft. This article is a great source to see it from the offenders’ perspective of what vehicles and people they target when they desire to commit the crime. This article was from 2006 which is one year outdated from the recommended source reliability, but it still provides insightful information regarding how offenders steal vehicles and which vehicles are most at risk.The only downfall from this article is it doesn’t provide clear solutions to the reader on how to prevent from being a victim of this victimless crime.
Vehicle theft has been a leading crime in property crimes in the U.S. and even with improvement from vehicle manufactures up to today, criminals still find a way to accomplish the crime. In this article, the authors provids an interview from two different groups of offenders to find out their reasons for committing property crimes and how they accomplished it. Copes and Cherbonneau conducted interviews with offenders from Tennessee and prisoners from Louisiana in the United States. There were fourty-two offenders from Tennessee and twelve offenders from Louisiana prisons that were interviewed for their study (Copes+ Cherbonneau 919). Out of all the intervieews, Copes and Cherbonneau found that twenty-seven from all the corespondents explained the motive for motor vehicle theft. Out of the twenty-seven, six participants were white, nineteen were black, one hispanic and one Asian (Copes and Cherbonneau 920). 
Before reading this article, I believed that individuals that committed motor vehicle theft searched every vehicle to see which was easist to steal. In the article, most of the offenders described the reasons for stealing the vehicles or what was in it simply because of desire or desperation. One offender stated that their mindset was not to steal a vehicle prior to the action, but a thought at the moment of the crime (920). Offenders usually target vehicles that they find something interesting about. Offenders with experience don’t go around lurking in every vehicle to see which vehicle is best for them to burglarize. Most of the time, offenders keep their eyes open to vehicles that they see people left unattended with the keys in the ignition. This is easy for them because they don’t have to have physical interactions with the victim, because most offenders that were interviewed confessed that they prefer not to have confrontations with the victims (Copes+Cherbonneau 924). 
I also discovered that vehicle theft criminals rather search for the vehicle in areas where no one would expect their vehicles to get burglarized or stolen like safe neighborhoods or busy public places (Copes+Cherbonneau 922). It is easier to steal vehicles there, because people leave their keys in the car because people are careless and they feel safe from motor vehicle theft crimes. When it is not possible for criminals to steal vehicles in such a place, they keep an eye on vehicles that are easy to steal. Copes and Cherbonneau discovered that the offenders got a set of master keys to open easy acessible vehicles such as old model vehicles. The most targeted vehicles that are stolen with the master keys are older model Toyotas and Hondas (927). Offenders can steal vehicles with master keys in a matter of seconds becuase of the poorly manufactured ignition switches on the vehicles.
This article works perfect to show the audience of our group project on motor vehicle theft on how victims are selected by these criminals. This article gives a perspective from the criminals’ point of view and it helps people avoid the mistakes criminals are expecting from their victims. Motor vehicle theft is a serious property crime problem in the U.S. and every person needs to be aware of the consequences if they are caught “slipping” like the intervieews said regarding the victims that accidentally gave the offender the upper hand of stealing their vehicle. 



Works Cited
Copes, Heith and Michael Cherbonneau. "THE KEY to AUTO THEFT: Emerging Methods of Auto Theft from the Offenders' Perspective." British Journal of Criminology, vol. 46, no. 5, Sept. 2006, pp. 917-934. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1093/bjc/az1001
