Rhetorical Strategies
	
	Rhetoric is the practice of effectively persuading an audience. Within rhetoric there are strategies used by authors to send a message and convince the audience of that message.  In the article “ The Roots of (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications” the work of ancient Greek philosopher, Aristotle is connected to recent work using  rhetorical strategies. Elements of rhetoric are analyzed and described from Aristotle’s view. The function of rhetoric has not changed, finding the means of persuasion for the intended audience (Demırdöğen, 189). Appealing to and keeping the attention of the audience is important when trying to send a message to the readers.  This article looks at all of the factors of rhetoric and persuasion, both in the original text of Aristotle and a study performed at Yale. In this article, Pathos is described as a the mood or tone used to appeal to the emotions or passions of the audience (Demırdöğen, 192). This specific strategy is used prevalently in Maya Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter”.  
	Pathos is relevant to Angelou’s intended audience, which is why it is used heavily in this particular excerpt. The communication context is the message within a text. Angelou uses her personal experiences to convey many messages. She reaches her audience through telling her story and narrating the emotions she felt with every situation. The world and elements of society through the perspective of a child are a discussed as well, this adds to her message of the true meaning of a home, leading into her description of adulthood which is also an emotional appeal towards her adult audiences. This is an example of amplification, another rhetorical device, used for emphasis. Bringing an aspect they could possibly relate to as every adult finds themselves thinking about. Which directly relates to Demırdöğen claims as  pathos being a psychological appeal . Putting the audience into a specific frame of mind was one of the ways of persuading that Aristotle studied, which also connects to pathos and having a psychological appeal in your writing (191-192). Angelou does this by creating an environment to allow for reminiscing in the minds of her readers.
	Ethos is the credibility and believability of the author. Credibility of the speaker was the first element of persuasion that Aristotle described in his research, and there are many factors that contribute to the charisma of the speaker, including the way the speaker presents themselves, as Demırdöğen describes in his article. It is not simply the credibility of the author. These affect the 3 factors of persuasion. Which are the source factors, the characteristics of the message, and the context and characteristics of the recipient. When she makes the claim that geography has little to no effect on children and idea of “home”; Angelou is able to build ethos by adding the various environments she was raised in into her text. Thus, supporting her argument that geography has little to no effect on children. That is why her background information on how and where  she was raised was an important aspect to her argument. It builds her credibility and overall appeals to her audience. The credibility that developed by the author themselves,  and how it is perceived by the recipient is shown to affect the  persuasion (Demırdöğen, 194) . 
	The article “The Art of Being Persuaded: Wayne Booth’s Mutual Inquiry and the Trust to Listen” describes the Aristotelian appeals as some of the most enduring concepts for classical rhetoric, and it describes the function of the logos appeal as the factual information and evidence for support, but also a heuristic approach into the minds of the readers to connect with their thoughts rooted in emotions (Baker, 17). Angelou also uses an analogy when describing the work of a philanthropist. She compares the work of philanthropy to a preacher who preaches to the already committed. The purpose of her analogy was to give the audience a reminder that even those who are already committed to good actions need to be encouraged and even thanked from time to time. This helps the reader apply what is about to be said in their own lives, even if they already consider themselves as generous people. 
The description and history that she provides for the word philanthropy, followed by the examples of common practices amongst these types of people is her way of incorporating logos into her argument. Connecting with Baker’s assertion that logos is dependent on ethos and pathos, describing it as a process people engage in resolutely; describing all three as crucial to mutual inquiry (Baker, 17) . As Baker mentions, logos is not dominated by mutual inquiry (17); therefore, Angelou begins her writing heavily with pathos and ethos, and incorporates logos as a completion of mutual inquiry with her readers. Moving forward in the excerpt, she relates emotions towards and common actions associated with being a philanthropist, as well as labeling her own membership as in a similar, but different group of people. This not only attaches the pathos aspect to her writing again because of the emotions she explicitly mentions, but also the ethos portion as well, as her humble self-image builds the charisma of a charitable person. 
	A conventional rhetorical device that is used in this excerpt in the last two sections titled “Revelations” and “Giving Birth”, gives the author an opportunity to give the reader insight into what they were feeling at the time. An anecdote is a story told by author, and in this case, Angelou is giving a message towards directed to the female readers. It begins with her day and goes into insignificant details to show how important and how much she remembers everything about that day. Mentioning those details is a way of emphasizing, in my opinion, how important that day was to her and how it affected her. She does into having troubles with her image and she wasn’t accepting to herself. This could relate to many teenage females who are struggling with accepting their own image and this was her way of reaching out to them by showing them they are not alone with how they feel. This was written for the reason of appealing to the audience. The title of her book indicates she is writing to the females, who she refers to as her “daughters”, so this was her way of appealing and connecting to her intended audience. 
An unconventional rhetorical device that is seen in Angelou’s writing is an epanalepsis. This is a type of emphasis in which a word or phrase is repeated. Angelou uses this to emphasize her feelings towards, what the reader realizes was a regretful choice she made. She states “ I said yes” twice for emphasis and so the reader feels the amount of emotion that she was feeling towards herself. She ended up making a decision because she thought it would help her self-image. She later describes it as the wrong choice (Angelou). This works towards the pathos and ethos, for the emotions that she is using and her own recollection of what happened. 
	The last section of this excerpt is an example of the rhetorical device enumeratio. This is when the author uses detailed descriptions to make a point. Again, going back to pathos, Angelou is so descriptive with the describing the emotions she felt as a young, pregnant, teenager having to tell her parents about her pregnancy. She goes into deep detail about the very day she decided she would tell her parents, building the suspense throughout the text, and really capturing the reader's attention. Emotions that are commonly felt in nerve-wrecking situations are described, even if the reader has not had a similar situation specific to this section, they can relate to nervousness or anxiety. Her description is so elaborate that it is reflective on the readers themselves, making them feel as if they are there with her at that moment. I believe the last part of the excerpt was the most emotionally appealing of the whole excerpt. This is because of the various and numerous amount of emotions being depicted through her words. 
	Rhetorical devices could be seen in every situation that uses language. In Demırdöğen’s article “ The Roots of (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications” we see it is seen a lot in politics, which isn’t a surprise as politicians are constantly trying to persuade others in their own interests. He also had really good insight from a study done at Yale and from Aristotle himself, and his research on the art of persuasion. I was able to connect many of Angelou’s strategies to the basics rhetorical devices that are mentioned in this article. There was a basic element of rhetoric in each section of her excerpt that was mentioned in Demırdöğen’s article. Many times pathos was seen in Angelou’s essay and Demırdöğen does a good job of elaborating on the purpose of pathos, that lined up directly with Angelou’s messages throughout her text. This article was easily connected to Angelou’s because it kept the basic theme of ethos, pathos, and logos throughout the whole article, and provides support and evidence of each of the authors claims through studies and historical research done by philosophers.
	In Baker’s article, “The Art of Being Persuaded: Wayne Booth’s Mutual Inquiry and the Trust to Listen”,  the idea of how a person is persuaded is discussed. Rather than taking the view of the author, Baker looks at things from a reader’s perspective and what are the elements of a paper that can change a reader’s mind. This gave insight on the effect of these rhetorical devices can have on the reader. The authors also describe the importance of each of the strategies in relation to each other. They analyze the three main elements of rhetoric and discusses why they are each dependent on each other, and how the similarities as well as the differences. Another author’s work was also being analyzed in this article the idea of mutual inquiry behind rhetoric. I noticed this was being used in Angelou’s excerpt as well, while she describes her emotions in detail and creates a specific charisma for herself. Getting the audience to trust you was also a big part of this article. It provided a different perspective of ethos, as persuading your audience to trust and believe you and your message in your text. This was helpful when breaking down each of the sections in Angelou’s essay, to see how she utilizes each one with the different message she conveys in each section. 
Overall, in the excerpt “Letter to My Daughter” Angelou utilizes many forms of rhetorical strategies. Some of the devices that I noticed included the three basic elements: ethos, logos, and pathos. Although she uses pathos most prevalently, and it connects to building her ethos as well, she does incorporate some logos into her text. But she also uses some unconventional forms of rhetoric. She uses anecdotes a few times, the biggest one being under the subheading “Revelations”. The message in that anecdote was her opening up about a problem she as well as many other teenagers deal with, which was self image. It also leads into her extremely detailed description of her emotions while going through that time. Leading to another rhetorical device called enumeratio, using her details to get her message across. She also emphasized in different ways; one of them being epanalepsis, when repetition of a specific word or phrase in the beginning and ending of a sentence is used for emphasis. Another type of emphasis is amplification, which is when she repeats a word for emphasis. The onl difference between amplificaiton and epanalepsis is the placing of the repeated word or phrase. The difference is small but makes a differences depending on how the author uses each one. In Angelou’s case she used amplification to appeal to her adult audience therefore saw the need to repeat her topic. Whereas, when describing an incredibly emotional period in her life, she used the same phrase twice in a sentence to give it significance. Her analogies are also a form of description to appeal to her readers. I found it interesting to read, analyze, and understand her strategies when approaching her writing. 
	











	Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. “Letter to My Daughter.” Signature. January 1, 2012. Random House. Published 
2008.http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost
Baker, Marsha Lee, et al. "The Art of Being Persuaded: Wayne Booth's Mutual Inquiry and the 
Trust to Listen." Composition Studies, vol. 42, no. 1, Spring 2014, pp. 13-34. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=96185124&site=ehost-live.
Demırdöğen, Ülkü D. "The Roots of Research in (Political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and 
the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications." International Journal of Social Inquiry, vol. 3, no. 1, Jan. 2010, pp. 189-201. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=50468023&site=ehost-live.
