
			        Violence does not always end with silence
 Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie the author of “Purple Hibiscus” properly displays how the inhumane treatment evident through various reasons affects not only family but the community surrounding them. This violence leaked into their schools, their jobs and their government and it caused a interesting reaction from many of the characters both negatively and positively. The theme of violence is prevalent throughout the novel “Purple Hibiscus” because main characters and events utilizes violence in order to enforce tyranny through their authoritative governing, to employ oppression through senseless beatings or killings and to extort silence from the victims of their destruction.
Adichie acquaints readers with the repercussions tyranny is having on the people of Nigeria and Papa’s family. Whether this tyranny was by the hands of Papa himself or produced by the British colonization of Nigeria it was clear that is was always there. The violence that was created by this tyranny forced characters such Kambili into submission. Adichie illustrates this ideal with words such as “The educated ones leave, the ones with the potential to right the wrongs. They leave the weak behind. The tyrants continue to reign because the weak cannot resist. Do you not see that it is a cycle? Who will break that cycle? (245)”. The idea that the tyranny that has been caused chases away those strong enough to rebel for their freedom while 
                                 2
the weak continues to deal with such violence is repeated. Instances such as Kambili and Jaja relationship with their father. Kambili who appeared weaker from her brother idolized her father and saw him as a higher being while Jaja hated his father and wanted to leave their home or rebel. Aunty Ifeoma routinely speaking against her brother and his strict, abusive treatment of his family while the mother remained silent is another example of tyranny’s effects on people. Tyranny seems to its victims everlasting; infamously causing havoc and dismay where hope appears nonexistent.
	Tyranny is a consistent cycle that leads to more violence or systemic oppression and Adichie recycles this topic throughout the novel. Oppression is a form of conditioning that gradually breaks down its participants until they are left either harbouring in fear or struck with silence. An example of this systematic oppression is Papa’s strict reign fueled by his religious beliefs. His rigidity in his religious beliefs made him oppose anything that differed from it subsequently oppressing them. Papa focused immensely on sin and anything that could cause sin he rejected and made his family avoid. Adichie expresses this way of thinking by writing “He was crying now, tears streaming down his face… I watched the water leave the kettle, flowing almost in slow motion in an arc to my feet. The pain of contact was so pure, so scalding, I felt nothing for a second. And then I screamed.“That is what you do to yourself when you walk into sin. You burn your feet,” he said (294).” Burning his child who he claimed to love because her grandfather who he considered sinful had visited her. His unrealistic high standards for his family oppresses them to the point where violence trumps his love. The questions that are raised 

 3
about this violence is always the same; how can anyone allow someone to beat them or talk to them that way?. Adichie has Amaka Kambili’s cousin question this ideal of freedom vs. tyranny. 
The truth is this repetitive abuse that was endured is a form of operant conditioning that enacts the wanted response from those affected by it. In the textbook “What is Psychology?” you learn that “ Classical conditioning occurs when a neutral stimulus is paired with an unconditioned stimulus that reliably causes an unconditioned response..(266)” to simplify if you pair an action with another action, you can produce the reaction of your liking. An example is Papa beating his family whenever they commit a sin so that they will fear it. Once they feared committing what he considered a sin, they would avoid any situation or person revolved around that sin. The systematic oppression made them cower at the person who dealt it. They learned to become silent and to never speak against it.
	When those who are beaten and broken down from the tyranny and oppression give up they are often left in a painful silence. Adichie has Kambili and several others represent the negative effects of this violence. Kambili did not laugh, joy was a taboo idea and perfection was constantly strived for out of fear of rejection. Ade another character in “Purple Hibiscus” was killed in front his family by the government after his constant rebellion. The students at the University Aunty Ifeoma worked at were not silent about their mistreatment they rioted their university and it also lead to silence. Aunty Ifeoma herself was silenced by being fired from her job forcing her to move to America in order for her family to survive. Silence is extorted from the victims of this inhumane treatment, silence insured you lived comfortably. Yet even in silence 

 4
Adichie illustrates how rebellious behavior still takes place. She writes “I started putting the poison in his tea before I came to Nsukka. Sisi got it for me; her uncle is a powerful witch 
doctor.” Mama the most dormant character who sustained mental, physical and emotional from the hands of her tyrant killed him in an ironic, symbolic way. Adichie reiterates the idea of the cycle of violence. Even if the violence is in silence it is alway there creeping into your home, your job and your community.
	The novel “Purple Hibiscus” written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie explores a plethora of themes, violence being the most prevalent to readers. The violence is illustrated vividly where anyone can feel its impact. The readers follow how this violence resulted from the tyranny and oppression caused by authority figures and it how it ultimately affects the people they care or love for.  Adichie sets the story in an almost historically accurate time period of British colonization of Nigeria. Utilizing this time period pushes that idea of freedom vs. tyranny, or the idea of silence vs. speaking up. Whether you decide to speak up against the tyranny how will it affects you depends on the strength of that character. Adichie using the viewpoint of a child going through such violence makes the emotions of it so clear and fresh. Often people do not think of how this destruction and abuse affects others until it is in front of our eyes and we can not shy away from it. Adichie put that violence clear in your face utilizing that family and love dynamic to make it more painful and clear. The effects of tyranny and oppression is often violence; it affects everyone in the community and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie made that point clear.

 5
Works Cited
Adichie Ngozi, Chimamanda. Purple Hibiscus. 2003
Pastorino, Ellen. Doyle-Portillo, Susann. What Is Psychology? Foundations, Applications, and Integration 2010, 2013
