Colin Kaepernick Situation Summary
Colin Kaepernick’s protests all started on Aug. 26, 2016 when he sat for the National Anthem instead of standing like the rest of his teammates. After the game was over Kaepernick told the reporters that he didn’t stand because of the oppression people of color see in the United States. On Sept. 1, 2016 he took it a step further by taking a knee during the National Anthem but this time he wasn’t alone because his teammate Eric Reid joined him. By Sept. 4th, Kaepernick was gaining support from different NFL players such as Jeremy Lane of the Seattle Seahawks and different sport stars such as Megan Rapinoe. Over time more NFL players started to follow the trend that Colin Kaepernick set in place such as Brandon Marshall, Arian Foster and Michel Thomas. Players started to show other ways to show that they support Kaepernick such as raising their fists or locking arms with each other. These protests soon started to spread to high school and collegiate athletic events that showed even cheerleaders taking a knee during the National Anthem. Some athletes came out with verbal support for Colin Kaepernick such as Marshawn Lynch and Iman Shumpert. Kaepernick’s influential protests even got him a spot on the Cover of Time Magazine for October 2016. Kaepernick soon lost his spot on the 49ers roster due to his protests against the government and this has assured that he does not get another spot on any NFL team in the future. A year has passed and Kaepernick is still using his platform that he has built to talk out against police brutality and inequality. The protests have reached a new level this season where whole teams are starting to take a knee as a whole instead of just one or two players on these teams. Colin is out spreading positivity and information with his protests. Colin was being looked at by a couple teams this season but was again overlooked because of his views on how minorities are viewed in the United States. This all leads up to Colin Kaepernick taking charge and filing a grievance against the NFL team owners for Collusion which would be big for Colin Kaepernick is he were to win the case.

Citation:
Sandritter, Mark. “All the athletes who joined Kaepernick's national anthem protest.” SBNation.com, SBNation.com, 11 Sept. 2016, www.sbnation.com/2016/9/11/12869726/colin-kaepernick-national-anthem-protest-seahawks-brandon-marshall-nfl.
