 
Maya Angelou 
	In Maya Angelou’s “Letter to my Daughter” she lists a series of significant events that took place in her life such as: a small background check of where she came from, her disagreement with the title “You Can’t Go Home Again” by Thomas Wolfe, her beliefs in the act of giving, and the birth of her son. She talks about the many relationships she developed throughout the excerpt, and how those encounters she has had with these people who have taught her one or more critical moral lessons. Some examples of them would be the following: her grandmother and her golden standards, her mother and her red lipstick, the boy who blessed her with her son, and her son himself (1, 7, 16,49). With this group of essential people, and the individual lessons learned, she wrote them down in the form of a letter, and gave it to the world to read. She turned these lessons into guiding tips for her audience to contemplate, and reflect over within their own lives. “For example, a speaker can assess the characteristics of an audience, then construct a discourse portraying the self (speaker) as a person who embodies those same characteristics” (Beck 123). Angelou does exactly this throughout the letter trying to get her lessons across to her readers. With each subtitle having its own simple storyline and overall message, she tries to evoke her audience to be inspired, courageous, and unfearful. She approaches to convey this message through the use of rhetorical appeals like pathos and ethos, devices such as word diction and imagery, and audience analysis. 
“Investigating texts for persuasion is a significant step toward understanding the rhetoric involved in the text” (Beck 125). Angelou begins to persuade her audience by giving context of her childhood. Angelou’s culture backdrop comes from the difficult times of segregation, and misconduct towards African Americans down south. Introducing a different outside source, Breat explains in his, Argumentation that credibility is determined by three most significant reacting elements from the audience due to the speaker: good sense, virtue, and goodwill (311). Explaining how she was born in Arkansas and lived with her piety grandmother till she was thirteen she takes us back to times of “separate but equal”, and “whites only” signs. When describing the way she and her family were treated by white southerners, she talks about how she was suppose to feel inferior to young white children, yet she did not feel subservient to anyone except maybe her older brother (1, 2, 4, 5). This urges the audience to not be afraid to go against what one person says just because they are  said to be inferior, or more educated. During this description of Angelou’s social experiences she states, “ Poor white children had the license to address lauded and older blacks by their first names or by any names they could create” (6). Angelou anticipates emotional reactions such as anger deepening the connection between reader and writer because the audience now feels for Angelou. She decided passing on these experiences, like hand me downs, would be beneficial for other women to read upon. She had confidence in this strategy of pathos because she could give concrete emotions, suggestions, and advice about similar situations other women around the world may have. 
Though Beck also states that pathos seem odd for scholarly writing, when Angelou targets to endeavor our emotion of anger and sympathy when she's pointing out her unpolished living conditions during times of segregation she tries to trigger our ethical beliefs to buy in what Angelou is saying. As a result of this, some women may relate this event to similar situations such as cyber bullying, or any other form of bullying, poverty, isolation, and many more negative concepts. Though the comparison is a stretch, small connections can be made to this content. Her credibility for this chosen topic is not limited for she first-handedly experienced these events, and became experts over them; since she also had a lot of time to reflect upon them. 
In the beginning of the article, Angelou references a book she enjoyed to read called “You Can’t Go Home Again” by Thomas Wolfe. To provide some context of the novel, it is about the main character, George Webber, who is writing a masterpiece of a novel concerning his family, friends, life cultures and traditions. When Webber decides to return to his home sweet home after publishing the book he finds himself to become an outcast to his community due to negative emotions toward the content in Webber’s book. His hometown furiated in unbelief and exposure they exiled Webber from his home leaving the novelist to continue on his own without any support system behind him. The story ends with Webber retreating back to his home roots, and getting to know himself as an individual human being through various emotional feelings, such as love. Angelou believes that we can never get rid of our ‘home’, “I believe that one can never leave home. I believe that one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of ones eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe” (7).  Through this smooth use of diction Angelou hardens the connection with her audience by understanding that everyone has their boulders lugging around the ankle. This small, but strong connection lets the audience know she understands the hoops that must be jumped through to survive and be successful. This alliteration Angelou makes is significant to infrom her readers that though we may physically leave home their is a home that absolutely no one can confiscate from within us as individuals. Literally, a home is an address, four walls, siblings coming and going, facts that a child has to remember. Angelou stresses that you can take the child away from the home, but you can never take the home away from the child. Going back to Angelou’s strategy of speaking directly to her audience, Angelou offers a perfect literary sample to her listeners a solution for an escape from anything needing saving from. During this time, Angelou wishes her audience to retreat to this feeling of child security when reading her words. Angelou introduces a comparison between the child within all of us with a shy magnolia (10). This comparison allows her audience to connect to her by understanding everyone is shy, and keeps hold of old childhood habits like a closed flower bud.  As Beck explained, Angelou is acquiring her readers character  aspects when describing  the real life feelings of retreating back within this home.  This also solidifies the connection she desires to make with her audience because this escape route is one any occupied mind can use. Furthering her ethos as well on this subject of overcoming and learning she provides solutions to problems she experienced. 
Furthermore, throughout the whole excerpt Angelou opens up to her listeners as if herself and her readers were having a conversation similar to her and her mother under Philanthropy, cognitive and friendly. According to Charles E. Beck rhetoric is an educational tool that was founded around 2500 years, and is ultimately the fundament  to education everywhere (Beck 122). If this may be true throughout the excerpt Angelou speaks directly to her audience as if it were a personal conversation. She targets all women around the world no matter the race, ethnicity, or religion she is reaching out to all female readers. She connects with her audience, and desires her readers to trust and consider her words through emotions, and understanding her audience. 
Angelou also uses this conversation as an example of herself, who is charitable. She begins with the definition of philanthropist, which is someone who loves humans; she then goes on about how a philanthropist are just giving, but by just giving donations of money they are detached from the personal connection with the recipient because it is a faceless act of kindness (14, 16). “Each single American giver keeps alive the American Cancer Society, the Red Cross, Salvation Army, Goodwill, Sickle Cell Anemia, American Jewish Society, NAACP, and the Urban League. The list continues to include church foundations, synagogue programs, Muslim Temple associations, Buddhist shrines, groups, officials, and city and social clubs. However, the largest sums of money come from philanthropists” (13). These are just some examples of institutions philanthropist keep alive with the faceless kind gesture. 
Continuing the previous thought, Angelou wants us to feel that this letter is like the conversation between her and her mother; Angelou is giving us life lessons as she gave her mom a smile, this way we will have confidence in the lessons she is presenting to us. Breat specifies that ethical testimony is composed by the nature of the speaker (311). The nature of Angelou is simply to inform her readers about her experiences and how these lessons made her who she is. Her nature is kind like a mothers, and that is how she wants her audience to view her.
	Next, Angelou tells us about the experience of losing her virginity, and how it was utterly  dreadful. She believed having intercourse would make her body proportions fuller, and her curves wider, but instead she faces the consequences of unprotected sex, and gets pregnant (36, 41, 42). “[W]riters can increase the persuasive effect of the do by a more exact or sophisticated audience analysis (Beck 124). This encounter gives the readers a chance to level with the feelings she was experiencing at this time. Tampering with such a touchy subject like young pregnancy, Angelou utilizes her power of persuading emotion to other young single mothers. Letting any woman going through the same thing know that everything will be eventually fall together; Angelou explains at the end of Revelations that she is very proud of the well developed man she raised. This feeling of rejoicement targetly motivates other young single moms not be discouraged about their pregnancy. Angelou’s mother was the one who gives birth to Angelou’s son and Angelou explains how she felt proud because her mother was proud of her grandson. This feeling of righteousness Angelou felt is the targeted emotion she wants her audience to feel when going through their own life inconveniences. As stated before since Angelou is writing to all her daughters she is asking to be seen as a mother figure; meaning, Angelou wants her audience to understand she is proud of them for overcoming their issues as Angelou mother was with her.
 Angelou provides many real life examples to get her audience to feel motivated. She influences her readers with the context of her home roots, her charitable personality, the deflowerment of her virginity, and her honorable son. Beck explains how a swedish psychologist by the name of Rolf Sandell, worked up studies on the difference between linguistic style and persuasion. In his findings he determined the persuasive effects come from comprehension, acceptance of the message, acceptance of content, and an attitude change (124). Angelou utilizes these persuasive effects to get her moralistic values across the bridge between her mind and her readers. In hopes that the audience will react to her teachings, Angelou does this through rhetorical appeals, her choice of words, and the descriptions she provides within the text. When directly speaking to her female crowd she anticipates cognitive recognition or attitude change such as, inspiration. The overall impact Angelou tried to succeed was sparking a fire within to go on through life. 

















Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. “Letter to my Daughter”. Signature, 1 Jan., 2012,  
http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelo
/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 18 September, 2017.
Beck, Charles E., and Kathy Hunnicutt. “Theory and the Profession.” Technical Communication,
vol. 39, no. 1, 1992, pp. 122–126. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/43095202.
Braet, A.C. Argumentation (1992) 6: 307.

http://removed-this-url.com/