
Facebook Is Using You
A person would be surprised if they were able to see how much personal information people you never heard of met, or seen have without ever knowing or even releasing the information to these people.  "Last week, Facebook filed documents with the government that will allow it to sell shares of stock to the public" stated by Lori Andrews in the article Facebook Is Using You.  Not only on Facebook is it an issue but google as well, and also any other social media sit where it is open to the world. Even if a person set their page to private these companies can gather your information and you never will know.  Andrews argues vigorously against the use of the popular social networking sites because: a person is judged on many different levels by many different companies, a person information is being freely used, and there is no law stating what information could be used against a person as well not having tell a person what information they have on them.
First, it's not always about what you post on the internet but also what you are searching on the internet. Andrews stated "Whether you can obtain a job, credit or insurance can be based on your digital doppleganger - and you may never know why you've been turned down.", which is true because if companies are allowed to take your data and information without your consent it may be something they misunderstood and without questioning a person has now lost a good job opportunity.  In a sense social networking is unsafe and that is because if it is easy for these companies to be able to take your information without your consent who is able to access this information that you may think if private and confidential.  The internet is not a safe place for anyone 
everyone has to watch what is being typed, questioned, searched, and all of the above. A person has not been judged because they searched of information for a friend, relative, class, or anything that may fall under those categories. Andrews stated "Material online has been used against people battling for child custody or defending themselves in criminal cases." But how is this even okay? If a person does not provide this information with consent it should not be allowed to be used against them.
Secondly, people should be notified when a company is using their information and also what information is being used against them.  Someone may have posted something on the internet years earlier, and it is absolutely fine for a company to stumble across that information and use it against a person.  Lori stated "For an average of six months, NebuAd copied every e-mail, Web source or purchase that some 400,000 people sent over the Internet." That should be illegal, at least to a certain extent, were those people notified? Did they know that they were technically being watched? Taking someone information and using it to create your own person profile on a person is invasion of a person privacy honestly.  A person information is just freely floating around and being used.
Lastly, if a company is going to be using information on a person he/she should at least know what is being used and when it is being used. How can a company be fine with using information you found on a person through the internet without conversing with that person before anything will take place. Andrews stated "...there are no laws that require data aggregators to reveal what they know about you." Since when was that a thing to do? How long have it been taken place? Andrews also states, "Hundreds of other companies have also staked claims on people's online data by depositing software called cookies or other tracking mechanisms on people's computers and in their browsers." Who knew that your "cookies" was being used to track what you are doing and what you are online searching? Everyone should be informed on what these social networking sites really have behind them. 
Somethings in this world is very sad and the fact that social networking companies can freely search up a person information without notifying that person and also without telling a person what is being used is unfair.  People are without jobs, homes, healthcare and other things all because these companies use people personal information in order to try figuring a person out and in real life most of these people is not what the companies make them out to be. It is unsafe and absolutely not right, and it will continue to go on until the people of the world is informed of everything that goes on and stand up for themselves as well as others and make it a law and a right to know who has your information.
