Achidie’s Novel Purple Hibiscus charts the growth of the narrator Kambili. She is a fifteen-year-old girl who lives in Nigeria during the rise of the military coup, she does not know much about the outside world aside from what her father has shown her. Throughout the novel she faces many obstacles that attribute to her growing up. Kambili finding her voice, thinking for herself, and producing her own views of the world allows her to mature in to the young adult she became at the end of the novel. 
In the beginning of the novel the protagonist Kambili was a very shy and quiet girl, she didn’t speak much due to her being afraid to stutter as well as the fear of angering her abusive father. Silence among her family was a common thing due to the strict lifestyle her father imposed and the fear of going against it. Her father set a schedule for her and her brother every week “The sheet of paper he thrust into my hand was similar to the schedule pasted above my study desk upstairs, except he had penciled in two hours of ‘time with your cousins’ each day.” (Purple Hibiscus Page 141). Kambili being so used to her father’s way of life it was new when she visited her Aunt and cousins, where as her father wanted her to act as he wished, her aunt wanted her to act as her own person. An incident where her cousin Amaka was angry at the fact that Kambili did not know how to make orah, Aunty Ifeoma instructed Kambili to speak up for herself “Aunty Ifeoma’s eyes hardened—she was not looking at Amaka, she was looking at me. “O ginidi, Kambili, have you no mouth? Talk back to her!” (Purple Hibiscus page 221). Kambili being encouraged to speak up for herself is a push for her to let herself be heard and not be so frightened to speak her mind. As the novel progresses and Kambili spends more time with her Aunt and cousins she opens up more and eventually stands up for herself to Amaka. In addition to talking back to Amaka, after her father beats her she opens up to her classmates as well and speaks up about her father’s abuse to her cousin. Kambili’s transition from being silent to eventually standing up for herself shows growth and maturity within her. It shows that she is no longer afraid to speak for herself even if it angers her father.
In addition to finding her voice, Kambili struggled with thinking for herself. In the beginning of the novel Kambili had the tendency to think in the manner of only pleasing her father, “I remained a backyard snob to most of my class girls until the end of term. But I did not worry too much about that because I carried a bigger load—the worry of making sure I came first this term.” (Purple Hibiscus page 66) her main concern was to get first in her term not because she wanted to but in fear that her father would be disappointed in her again for coming second. Kambili constantly sought after her father’s approval because she feared and looked up to him. But Kambili visiting her aunt’s house allowed her to grow and think for herself and do things for her pleasure regardless of how her father felt about it. For instance, she decided to get to know her grandfather despite knowing that her father would be extremely displeased with her. Kambili thinking for herself is another example of her growth in to a young adult.
Lastly Kambili forming her own views of the world also pushed her to become the young woman she became at the end of the novel. Kambili grew up not knowing her grandfather due to her father disliking the fact that his father would not conform to the catholic ways. So because her father did not wish to have a relationship with his father he would not allow his children to have a relationship with their grandfather. Kambili getting to know her grandfather during her visit at Aunty Ifeoma’s house and realizing that his ways are similar to her catholic ways allowed her to form her own opinion about her grandfather. And come to the realization that he isn’t much different than she is.
In conclusion Kambili’s ability to grow from her situation allowed her to become the mature young woman she is at the end of the novel, she learned how to speak up for herself without being afraid. She learned how to think for herself and not just blindly follow what her father says. She learned to view thw world through her own eyes and not her fathers which allowed her to know her grandfather for a short period of time. At the end of the novel you can see the character growth within Kambili and notice that she is not the same naïve child she was in the beginning.
Works Cited

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Algonquin Books, 2012.
Hewett, Heather. “Finding Her Voice (Review of Purple Hibiscus, by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie).” Women's Review of Books, Womens Review of Books, www.academia.edu/1878309/Finding_Her_Voice_review_of_Purple_Hibiscus_by_Chimamanda_Ngozi_Adichie_.
