
Pre-Reflection
	In my time at the volunteer center, I intend to obtain experiences in marketing community events through internet marketing and the use of social media. I am most excited about learning how this is done differently in a nonprofit organization as opposed to a for profit business; this is something that I have no experience doing. My director has mentioned the need for reaching out to our community and marketing our organizations to sponsors as well as marketing our organization to those who want to volunteer. To do both of these tasks, I will gain experience in externally marketing an organization.  On the other hand, I have to market internally to our existing volunteers when we are short staffed at certain community events or when we need an extra hand in a short period of time. I am very excited about this internship because as I’ve just started I’ve been thrown in quite a bit already and think that I will grow a lot as a marketing student from it. 
	Throughout this internship I need to work on my technology skills and graphic design skills which I will do by sending out newsletters and updating the website. In writing press releases, public service announcements, and memos, I hope to improve upon written communication skills and in talking to sponsors, volunteers, and others in the community I hope to improve upon my oral communication skills. This intership is a great fit for me as I have 18 credit hours this semester and I get to choose my own hours. This will allow me to show the initiative and work ethic that I have. I hope to improve most on my interpersonal skills this semester. I can speak to others about business fairly well but I am not already confident in talking to companies and people in the community that may become sponsors of the organization. Alongside my improvement of my interpersonal skills, I will also be working on my teamwork skills. I was discussing our organization with another intern and a lot of the work is done for free and by volunteers so it is not the most organized. It has been very hard getting started because I am the only marketing person and do not have anything to go by.  I am sure this skill will improve throughout the course of the internship as I work alongside other interns. 
	Poster making and flyer making to promote events is not new to me. I was always heavily involved in school events growing up and helped plan dances, blood drives, and fundraisers in multiple organizations that I was involved in. I have taken some marketing courses at my local community college and I have some knowledge of volunteer programs comparable that I did back at home. I hope to build upon my knowledge of community service organizations, promoting events, and applying my class room knowledge to real world situations. I am hopeful and excited about this opportunity to gain experience to make myself a more marketable and employable candidate in my future endeavors.
