Subject: StrengthFinder and CareerLeader Results

Results

When I took the StrengthsFinder assessment, I learned that my top five strengths themes were: restorative, futuristic, belief, discipline, and achiever. After this, I took the Career Leader assessment. According to those results, I exhibit strong interests related to creative production, coaching and mentoring, and influencing others. Also according to those results, I value security, altruism, and lifestlye in regards to my motivating factors. My skills include resilience, time management, and organizational priority. Finally, this assessment  matched me to careers such as marketing, public relations, advertising account management, and human resources mangement. 

Similarities

I found a lot of similarities in my two assessments. My top strength was being restorative. Career Leader also ranked me as skilled in influencing others and resilence. These two things very closely correlate with having the restorative strength. For example, by being resilent, I do not easily give up when I face problems. Thus, I am restorative and resilent as I seek out solutions to problems. 

As futuristic in strength, I am altruistically motivated. By continually looking forward to the future and the betterment of society, I am energized and motivated. This could relate to my belief strength as well. The consistency in my relationships is founded on my strong beliefs and core values. Thus, it was no surprise that my skills included gaining trust and the ability to compromise. 

My last two strengths were discipline and achiever. Discipline simply means that I thrive in a predictable world and that I am routine in nature. Career Leader supported this attribute by labeling security as my top motivator. This security is in terms of predictable salary, benefits, and future employment. The second assessment also supported this strength by desribing my time management ability as in the 87th percentile. 

Career Matches

I was not surprised with my results in the least. I agreed with just about everything both assessments told me about myself. I was relieved to find that my career matches were in my chosen concentration marketing. After a few career matches in marketing, I was also matched with human resources which was interesting and enlightening. As I pursue my graduate career, I am more than likely pursuing a concentration in Human Resources thus my results were spot on.

Summary

I was very pleased with both assessments. I felt like they were useful, accurate, and complete. They each provided me with information to think about going forward into my business career and opportunities to consider in the future. I hope to be able to continually utilize my results both personally and professionally. I am glad that my school presented this opportunity for me.
