Career Counseling 
High school students may feel obligated to attend school rather than view it as an opportunity towards their future career, and even students that go to college may feel confused and unaware about the career they will pursue. Scholars have researched methods to increase academic interest through rewards, community service, and a sense of belonging to the school by joining after school activities but this only provides temporary motivation. Motivation to try in school only lasts for a brief time which is why a roadmap must be created for each student that will help them focus on the classes they need to achieve their career goal. There are improvements that need to be made in the education system’s career center. Counselors and college advisors are not providing accessibility and specific information for each individual student because they aren’t embracing new ways of delivering information through technology. Students rarely visit their counselors so providing online access to programs where students can check what a career path will look like for a certain major will give students the necessary steps to take. Online career services will also give students access to communicate with the counselor. 
Although giving general information to high school students helps them become aware about their future choices, there is still more counselors can do. A college advisor compared to high school counselors provides information that relates to the individual’s career goals. Sometimes the information provided by college advisors can be general and don’t answer the student’s question. Students in high school and college have various needs whether they are family related, improving certain skills, or classes needed which is why counselors should take the time to evaluate the individual's situation without categorizing students into groups and offering one simple solution. A counselor should take the time to explore different routes with a student. When counselors give students unsatisfying answers then that’s when students feel like career centers aren’t useful so they stop seeking information from them. 
The current views students have of counselors is that they aren’t useful which is discussed  by Joan M. Bloxom, Kerry B. Bernes, Kris C. Magnusson, Thelma T. Gunn, Angela D.Bardick, David T.Orr, and Kerbi M. McKnight in the article "Grade 12 Student Career Needs and Perceptions of the Effectiveness of Career Development Services within High Schools" where students showed that the parents were looked at for career planning instead of counselors and there was also a lack of knowledge in career options. Most of the students, which were seniors in high school, surveyed had a future plan after high school that involved higher education. The career choices depended on income, work satisfaction, and interest in the chosen area but were discouraged by the conditions of the job (Bloxom, Joan M., et al.). Students that have an interest in higher education aren’t receiving the support by the counselors whose goal is to encourage students to attend college. It has already been established that career counselors need to meet the needs of students. High school students are unaware about the career they are choosing which is why counselors need to provide useful information to show what the working conditions are like. The actual roadmap for the chosen career needs to be examined so students have an idea of the classes they will have to take as well as any additional training after college. If students feel like the career counselors aren’t helpful then this can lead to a decline in college enrollment among first generation students whose parents are unaware about higher education. 
In a study made by Sharon Balke, Melody Kruzic, and Sue Way in "ONLINE CAREER COUNSELING at CAPELLA UNIVERSITY: Advantages, Challenges, and Opportunities" an online career counseling was developed that provided students unlimited access to various sources relating to career development which was customized to fit the needs of the students at Capella University. The university accommodated students needs by providing access to their service on mobile devices. Adjusting the online career service had some disadvantages that the staff had to deal with. Capella University provides their services on different platforms so they need to keep updating new information which can take up time. The future plans are to get students involved in their own career planning and foster the relationship between student and counselor (Balke, Sharon, et al.).
Even though online career counseling services can connect students to counselors there are limitations that can lead to counselors rejecting online services and relying only on traditional methods. Current counselors communicate with students through appointments or email but the internet has provided a new platform for counselors to interact with students especially those who offer their service outside of a school environment. Counselors who have their own business that offers counseling services is more likely to benefit from online counseling than a school counselor because private counselors have to be accessible to a wide range of clients that may not live near them. School counselors’ profit doesn’t depend much on the amount of people they provide services too because they work for a school with a set amount of students. Providing online services requires training that counselors may not want to deal with. The school whether it is a high school or college may also not want the burden of keeping their online information updated (Balke, Sharon, et al., 54). Once the counselor understand the new system of online counseling then the students will benefit because the counselors will seem more approachable online. 
Students associate the career center as a waste of time which is why a new platform is required where they can instantly access their career counselors. Visiting a counselor can be difficult for college students because their schedule may not coincide with the counselor’s available hours making it difficult to meet. Even though email can be the best way for a student to get information it could take a while. Creating an online chat like that on the Henry Madden Library can give students the simple answers they may have which will prevent the university’s counselors from getting too many emails on simple questions. Although the answers to those questions may be on the college’s website it could take time to find the answer but a 24/7 chat can give students the answer quickly. An online provider can give the student the answer to their question but also help them research more about their concerns pertaining to their career. Students will be able to gain a greater knowledge about their questions and feel comfortable making an appointment with a career counselor since they will know what specific questions they may have. The online access to counselors won’t only help those students who are busy but also students that may have never thought about visiting their counselor. 
The benefits of online career services are explained by Marty Jencius and Steve Rainey in the article "Current Online Career Counseling Practices and Future Trends" where different organizations provide career services but universities provide the same services to students for free. Hiring a career counselor to aid in job searchers or resumes are some of the services free to students. If someone wasn’t attending a university then they would have to hire a career counselor where the price isn’t known until an application is filled out. Colleges now offer online interviews that can be done through Skype or other videoconferencing sites. A benefit to online career counseling is placing a student in a virtual world as an avatar to explore the different career options (Jencius and Rainey). The authors Kevin Glavin, Pia Smal, and Nicole Vandermeeren in their article "Integrating Career Counseling and Technology" explain the combination of technology and career counseling. Adolescents are using the internet to search for information on activities that interest them which is similar to exploring careers. The goal is to use technology to engage students in career planning. Using narratives through videos or other platforms like social media and virtual environments can be used by career counselors to provide their service to students. Virtual worlds can provide that real life experience to students in a chosen career (Galvin, Smal, and Vandermeeren). 
A virtual world would be an online simulation that can give students a better understanding of the tasks required in a career. It can provide insights and the job experience that students want before deciding on a major. Creating a virtual world would require time and effort from the university staff since they will need to create different scenarios for the different careers offered at their school. The accuracy of the online job experience could also be different since there is always new technology and methods being introduced in the job market. The creators of the online simulation will need to stay up to date with the information which can be a disadvantage that schools will not want to deal with. Although a virtual world where a student can experience a job online can be beneficial when deciding a career it would require an outside party to offer this service. An organization that focuses on creating accurate simulations of different jobs and then offering their service to schools will be more efficient since the organization will be focusing on this kind of work. 
Other benefits to online career counseling are discussed by Carolyn Couch in "What to Consider When Deciding to Offer Online Career Services" where a greater audience can be assisted. Online services give students access to the career center’s service instead of waiting to make an appointment. There are some limitations to online service that counselors may object which are communicating online because feedback in areas like interviews is difficult to assess since the counselor can’t see the student’s body language (Couch). With online counseling services counselors can balance the amount of work that is seen at the beginning of the school year and end of each semester when students have questions about changing classes. During these busy time periods counselors can manage their time between appointments and online chats with students. A benefit of online career services is that college students with schedules that don’t coincide with the advisors’ will be able to go into the school’s online career service page and obtain information. This website should be easy to navigate and offer sources that answer common questions students have just like Capella University does with their online career service (Balke, Sharon, et al., 52). High schoolers don’t visit their counselors because of intimidation and lack of knowledge on what information is offered, and in college an appointment with a college advisor can be difficult because the counselor usually has other appointments already scheduled. 
Online access to counselors has its disadvantages even if the meeting is through a video chat. College students require more services than high schoolers like resumes and interviewing techniques but if this isn’t done in person than students won’t gain the benefits of practicing in a real life scenario (Couch, 50). We know that online communication makes students feel less intimidated so online interviews won’t give the student the feeling of being nervous right before an interview because they aren’t looking directly at a person. When a conversation takes place with technology there is the possibility of distractions like staring at the screen or what is around the room. Counselors won’t be able to effectively critique the student’s performance which is why there should be some limitations on the services offered online and which ones require a visit to the counselor’s office. Questions can be answered online but performances like interviews and examples of how to interact with employers should be demonstrated in person. 
The article "Addressing Career Issues Online: Perceptions of Counselor Education Professionals" by Jacqueline Lewis and Diane Coursol surveyed career counselors on the use of online services where videoconference was popular over other forms of communication. This form of communication aids the student by feeling less intimidated. Online career counseling is said to be the most common service for counselors in the future which will require training and research to get counselors prepared to provide their service through the internet (Lewis and Coursol, 152). Training career counselors like those not knowledgeable in technology will improve their skill set and expand the sphere of people that contact counselors. Counselors can contact students online and encourage interactions so students are more involved in their career planning. Although students may not have the time to schedule an appointment or visit a counselor they will be able to chat online. The online interactions between students and counselors can also create a place where students can ask about other problems they may have that relate to their educations. Minority groups for example may feel uncomfortable visiting a counselor but contacting them online could break the barrier of accessing a source for help. Students feel more confident contacting someone online because they don’t have to see the person creating a sense of security. 
First-generation and low income students are less likely to visit a career center because of intimidation or lack of information on the services the career center offers. Interactions between these students and university staff must be encouraged. Seeing a counselor shouldn’t be the only encouragement but also telling students to view their degree plan. An online program should provide students with the ability to personally view what classes they need to take per semester but should also see the requirements and recommendations towards their desired career. Many students, mainly first-generation, end up graduating only to realize that their degree isn’t enough to pursue the job they wanted. There are also students who are unsure what their degree can get them in the future. An online program showing what a career is like instead of visiting a career counselor will encourage students to see the roadmap of their current major and stay up to date as they progress towards that degree. 
The usefulness of high school counselors could improve by providing students with individual roadmaps that best fits their life. High school counselors usually focus on getting students to college but the student may have different values and goals which may lead them to postpone college for a later time. They may want to serve their country and do it while they are young with no commitments. Family situations could also postpone college and instead of pressuring students to attend college a temporary alternative can be suggested like apprenticeships. Causes of high school dropouts and not going to college can be prevented. 
The article "School Motivation and High School Dropout: The Mediating Role of Educational Expectation" by Weihua Fan and Christopher A. Wolters found that students’ motivation and attitude on dropping out were a result of their educational goal which ranged from not earning a high school diploma to a Ph.D. The motivational factors were split into two, student’s own comprehension in academics and interest in school, where the latter was found to have no significance in predicting high school dropout. Student demographics was also measured with the results being that more non-white students dropped out than their counterparts and the dropouts also came from low socioeconomic family (Fan and Wolters). As we can see even if a student is interested in an academic subject that won’t prevent them from dropping out. The focus should be on strengthening a student’s skills in either English or math which are core subjects that branch out to other academic areas. Providing these skills in students will give confidence and with career counseling this will provide an interest into their future. Counselors in high school should be willing to attend each student and offer them a roadmap towards a career that interests them. With technology counselors can interact with students that wouldn’t normally visit their counselor and also offer students information on what different careers do. 
Online sites can benefit career counselors by communicating with students and offering virtual experiences of the jobs they choose but common career assessments can still be useful. There are different career assessments like ONET and Strong Interest Inventory where students can take the assessments on their own time. Then the counselor can view the results and offer feedback that doesn’t require the student to visit the counselor. An email from the counselor can  show the career choices the student should consider and also and follow up links the student can visit to get further information. Counselors will be able to provide students the opportunity to engage in their career planning by researching the career using the sources provided. 
Current methods of career counselors are not effective as students make their complaints of career centers not offering useful informations. There is a need for information and a visit to the career center doesn’t satisfy that need. Students need an online program created by the school where students can communicate with counselors by chats or videoconferences. The online career center can also have various sources that answer common questions students have at that specific school.Although offering online services requires money, time, and resources from the school it has positive benefits for students. Students have different needs but also different schedules. Online career counseling gives students access to the online service which gets rid of any previous barriers students had due to their schedule or the limited number of students a counselor could see per day.  












Works Cited
Balke, Sharon, et al. "ONLINE CAREER COUNSELING at CAPELLA UNIVERSITY:			Advantages, Challenges, and Opportunities." Career Planning & Adult Development		Journal, vol. 33, no. 2, Spring 2017, pp. 52-56. EBSCOhost,					

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=122555385&site=ehost-live.
Bloxom, Joan M., et al. "Grade 12 Student Career Needs and Perceptions of the Effectiveness of		Career Development Services within High Schools." Canadian Journal of Counselling /	 	Revue Canadienne De Counseling, vol. 42, no. 2, Apr. 2008, pp. 79-100. EBSCOhost

http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=33061834&site=ehost	-live.
Couch, Carolyn. "What to Consider When Deciding to Offer Online Career Services." Career		Planning & Adult Development Journal, vol. 33, no. 2, Spring2017, pp. 48-51.			EBSCOhost

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=122555384&site=ehost-live.
Fan, Weihua and Christopher A. Wolters. "School Motivation and High School Dropout: The	 	Mediating Role of Educational Expectation." British Journal of Educational Psychology,		vol. 84, no. 1, Mar. 2014, pp. 22-39. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/bjep.12002.	

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=94503329&site=ehost-live.
Glavin, Kevin, et al. "Integrating Career Counseling and Technology." Career Planning & Adult	 	Development Journal, vol. 25, no. 3, Fall 2009, pp. 29-45. EBSCOhost

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=50992790&site=ehost-live.
Jencius, Marty and Steve Rainey. "Current Online Career Counseling Practices and Future		Trends." Career Planning & Adult Development Journal, vol. 25, no. 3, Fall 2009, pp.		17-28. EBSCOhost

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=50992789&site=ehost-live.
Lewis, Jacqueline and Diane Coursol. "Addressing Career Issues Online: Perceptions of		 	Counselor Education Professionals." Journal of Employment Counseling, vol. 44, no. 4,		Dec. 2007, pp. 146-153. EBSCOhost

http://search.ebscohost.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh	&AN=27873387&site=ehost-live.
