		   		Are Smaller Classes Sizes Better?
	Parents and teachers want what is best for their children or students in their education. There have been changes in the education system to make sure that students have higher success in their education.  Examples of these changes to the system have been changing the age requirement for a student to enter kindergarten, having new and more placement tests, and providing online classes. A change that has yet to be seen is class size reduction. Student interactions with their peers and teacher have been addressed by researchers to be an important factor in a student’s success. However, classroom sizes in today’s school contradict what has been addressed about student interactions. Schools should be focused on classroom sizes starting in kindergarten. The NICHD Early Child Care Research Network conduced a research on students that were in kindergarten through first grade, and had teachers in the small classes report that the students were more socially skilled, showed less externalizing behavior, were more closer to them, and performed better on literacy skills. (Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 651).
	What is important in the research conducted by NICHD Early Child Care Research Network is when and where the students were recruited, some background information of the students, and the findings of the research. The students were chosen from hospitals from ten different geographic sites in the U.S. when they were born.  Each one had a different 
											2
background. Some were rich, poor, and some were from minority groups. In total there were 1,364 participants but only 966 were observed in their second year. Starting kindergarten the students were placed in either small or large class sizes and were observed up until first grade.  Researchers found that smaller class size affected positively a student academic achievement because of “interactions with teachers or peers, better instruction, and less discipline.”(Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 651). What was used to test and measure for this research was social skills rating scale, child behavior checklist, student-teacher relationship scale, and they used the classroom observation system (Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 651). Yes, a students background has effects on their academic achievement, but students who were considered poor or had other overcoming barriers and were placed in a small classroom setting, had good academic success despite their struggles. This shows that having less students, teachers are able to have more interaction with their students and not only help a student with their homework or any other school related subject, but also personal problems. The students were able to rely on their teachers and therefore perform better. Being in a reduced class size allowed the students to be close to one another (Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 651). Friendships are important because it is an individuals “go to” when they are having issues. Having friends also helps a student feel like they belong. Which takes stress of students shoulders and it allows them to focus more on their studies. These students in the research that had had struggling backgrounds showed that that it is possible to succeed when they at least have more interaction and connection with their teachers and peers, which is due to being placed in a smaller class size. 
	A way a teacher can have more interaction, connection, instruct and help their students better is if they have control of their classroom. Researchers Jocelyn Bonnes Bowne, Katherine 
										            3
A. Magnuson. Holly S. Schindler, Greg J. Duncan, and Hirokazu Yoshikawa came up with a hypothesis that “both smaller classes and lower child-teacher ratios are though to improve 
classroom environment and increase ECE’s effectiveness in promoting early learning.”( Bowne, Jocelyn Bonnes et al. 407). Their hypothesis is supported from evidence from analyses of the NICHD Study of Early Child Care data. In this research, smaller class sizes had more favorable outcomes than larger classrooms, and also the students chosen were in kindergarten though first grade. (Bowne, Jocelyn Bonnes e al. 407). If schools want to implement these changes of class size reductions they should start from kindergarten and go their way up because effective learning should start in the beginning of a students education. In kindergarten, students choose who their friends are and they start to develop their personality. A teacher is able to get to know their students depending how well they are able to interact with them. The same is said with all other sorts of age groups. In a smaller class size setting, a teacher knows what students does not work well with another student either because they talk to much, they get distracted, or they do not get along. Having this information the teacher strategically can place students in a place where the students can learn the best. Placing a student in a certain spot is not the only way a teacher can make a difference. Each and every student has their way of learning. Smaller class room sizes make it easier for teachers regarding teaching strategies (Korostoff, 41). Some students learn better by hearing, touch, or by seeing. In a student’s early learning such as kindergarten or first grade their teachers can recognize this and make adjustments to their teaching style. Arranging students and teaching in a certain style are ways a teacher can control their classroom. Another thing a teacher can do is inform the students next grade teacher if possible. The new teacher has an idea of which teaching strategy to use. This way, the teachers 
											4
are ahead of their game and can make a healthy environment to all their students. Smaller class room sizes tend to facilitate teaching strategies.
Not taking action in attempting to reduce class size can lead parents and teachers to take actions themselves, such as protests or strikes. Currently in Fresno, California, some Fresno 
Unified teachers are going on a strike. One of the reasons that some of these teachers are going on a strike is for class size reductions. Although teachers mean for the strike to be a positive effect to the students, fellow colleagues, and themselves, it actually brings various negative consequences. Without the teachers to teach, the schools have to bring in substitutes to temporarily replace the teachers for their absence in the strike. In Fresno Unified’s case, there are many teachers going on a strike so there is a great need for substitutes. Since, there is a great need for substitutes the schools might willingly hire anyone without talking a second look because they desperately need them. These substitutes may not be well informed on the subject of the class they will be substituting, so they will not be much of a help to students with their work. The teachers have an agenda on what and how they will teach their material for that school year. With strikes that agenda is disrupted and affects a student’s learning and grades. The students will go on to learn nothing and when they go up to a higher school grade and more is expected from them, the students will struggle. Also, some students can decide to be part of the strike as an excuse to not go to class. Obviously it is not a valid excuse for students to skip class, but students like to get away with things by saying “it is my freedom of speech”. Skipping class not only affects the students academics but the school’s image as well. As the students grade go down, so does the good reviews about the school. Parents will then take their children out of that school and put them in a “better” school. 
										5
Some individuals may argue that reducing class sizes will cost a lot of money that is not necessary. If class sizes are reduced then new classes, new teachers, school supplies  will have to be hired or bought. And in order for that to happen, money has to be put in. Individuals argue that there is positive effects of large class sizes so there is no need to go though all the mess and try to change what is in place already.  In “Are small classes better Understanding relationships between class size, classroom processes and pupils’ learning” by David Pepper, it is said that “ a major problem with class size research was the lack of detailed studies of complex processes that might mediate class effects on pupils’ learning”(Pepper, 213).  Research found that in larger classroom students are able to rely on themselves and their classmates rather than their teachers (Pepper David, 221). This forms a student to be more independent and not have to always take teacher’s hand. This is a positive effect because when the students goes off to college, it will not be such a slap in the face when they are bombarded with a lot of work. Also, larger classroom sizes can get students out of their comfort zones because they have to work more often in groups. Working in groups creates friendships and confidence that a student did may not had before. Being able to work in groups is a skill that students will not only have to be able to use to work through kindergarten and college, but in their future work field as well. Students going to the medical field for instance, have to be able to collaborate with nurses, doctors, patients family members, and maintenance. However, reduced class sizes can also offer what the larger classroom have to offer. Smaller class sizes does not mean students will only work individually with their teacher. They will also work with groups, but the students get more help from the teacher. The teacher has more time to go around and spend more time either individually or with groups. 
											6	
Reducing all the classes in the state of California all at once may be a impossible task to do, yet alone the whole United States. Making such changes will be chaotic and stressful for the teachers, administrators, staff, students, and parents. Not only can it be chaotic and stressful, but time consuming as well. Making such changes in the education system will take years. As each year passes by, that is another year of a lot of money spent. Only so much can be done from preventing such chaos, stress, and time consuming . However, the amount of money spent there are more options.  Reducing class sizes is not the only option there is. Another option schools have is hiring more teachers to have at least two teachers in one classroom. This reduces the amount of spending on new classrooms, materials, and teachers. NICHD Early Child Care Research Network not only observed outcomes of smaller class size, but also child-teacher ratio. As with smaller class sizes, classrooms with more teachers had more amount in emotional support.(Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 661). In both reduced classroom and having more than one teacher in classrooms, there is favorable outcomes and positive effects on a students academic achievement. 
When the topic of class size reductions is talked individuals always bring up that is has either good or bad outcomes and how much money it will cost. What is not usually talked about is whether or not class sizes has an effect on mortality for the students down the road. A study was conducted to see whether or not smaller classes has an effect on mortality through age of 29 years. Information used was from the Project Student Teacher Achievement Ratio (STAR) and its participants were linked to the National Death Index records “to determine each subject’s vital status and cause of death between 1985 and a the end of 2007.” (Muennig Peter, 1468 ).  The 

7
hypothesis was that smaller classes “might produce behavior changes that increase mortality though young adulthood that are stronger than the protective effects of enhanced cognition.”(Muennig Peter, 1473. The study showed that smaller class sizes had a higher mortality rate for the young people. But that was because of non-cognitive ways. Car accidents and firearm were the two leading causes of death for these students. Even though smaller classes had a higher mortality rate, the students in the smaller classes had more life long benefits than those in larger classes.  With lifelong benefits they can enjoy “job security, health insurance, higher income— and probably better health later in life—.”. ( Muennig Peter, 1473). 
 Small class sizes can positively contribute to well known issues such as bullying. There are campaigns to inform parents and their children about the consequences and signs of bullying. A parent can teach their children of how it is bad, why it is bad, and also how their children can be nice to their peers. But six or more hours of a student’s day is spent at school. Not only do they learn academic stuff but they also learn from their peers and teachers on how to behave, how to be nice to others, and other characteristics that benefit others and themselves. A way teachers can helps solve issues such as bullying, is by keeping an eye open for the students and being able to reach out to them. Small class sizes make it easier for teachers to do so. Students can develop a trusting relationship with their teachers and come to them if they are experiencing bullying or know someone who is getting bullied.
According to the articles “Does Class Size in First Grade Relate to Children’s Academic and Social Performance or Observed Classroom Processes? And “A Meta-Analysis of Class sizes and Ratios in Early Childhood Education Programs: Are Thresholds of QualityAssociated With Greater Impact on Cognitive, Achievement, and Socioemotional  Outcomes”, reduced class 
8
room sizes have an impact to a student’s academic success  Their academic success is due to that smaller classrooms offer students higher quality instructional and motivation support.(Allhusen, Virginia, et al. 651). Teachers are able to engage with all their students more because there are 
less them. Instead of wasting time on trying to control their classrooms and try to get students attention, the teachers can now have more one on one time with their students. Reduced classroom sizes is a benefit in a student’s academic success and in their future. It should be a change that should be tried because it is worth trying. 















9
 Works Cited:
Allhusen, Virginia, et al. “Does Class Size in First Grade Relate to Children's Academic and Social Performance or Observed Classroom Processes?” Developmental Psychology, vol. 40, no. 5, 2004, pp. 651–664.

Bowne, Jocelyn Bonnes, et al. “A Meta-Analysis of Class Sizes and Ratios in Early Childhood Education Programs: Are Thresholds of Quality Associated with Greater Impacts on Cognitive, Achievement, and Socioemotional Outcomes?” Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, vol. 39, no. 3, 2017, pp. 407–428.

Korostoff, Marilyn. “Observing from the Inside: Teaching and Learning in California's 20:1 Reduced-Size Classrooms.” Teacher Education Quarterly, vol. 26, no. 1, 1999, pp. 39–47.

Muennig, Peter, et al. “The Effect of Small Class Sizes on Mortality Through Age 29 Years: Evidence From a Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial.” American Journal of Epidemiology, vol. 173, no. 12, 2011, pp. 1468–1474.

Pepper, David. Are Small Classes Better? Understanding Relationships between Class Size, Classroom Processes and Pupils' Learning.” Oxford Review of Education, vol. 32, no. 2, 2006, pp. 213–234.
