Imprint Digital and Design
	I met Casey, when she was a guest speaker in my Principles of Marketing class. She is from the same area as me and she has quite a bit of marketing experience. She seemed like a good fit for myself when approaching this assignment. Based on what I learned from her in class, she worked for marketing and in firms during the growth of media. She had a very interesting take on the media and how it effects marketing generationally. I learned most of the sample questions in her presentation. Recently, I was given the opportunity to interview with a company for a summer internship who focuses and branding and online presence. While this is something I am interested in, it is slightly a different marketing path that I had intended, nevertheless, I had a few questions for her: 
The first question I asked Casey was, “What is a typical day like in your position?” She laughed and said interesting. She went on to describe to me that she is the only person employeed by her firm. She sometimes hires and works with freelancers but does the majority of her job herself. She said that depending on the day, she is project managing, billing clients, writing and giving proposals, working on websites or creating websites, and tracking her success via Google Analytics. 
Next I asked, “As a marketing major what advice would you give me?” She told me to know that right out of school it is okay to take a job to get paid. She said from the get-go I need to expect to accept low paying jobs related to but not entirely what I wanted to do. She said to that it is okay to do so and sometimes necessary. Her advice for me however, was not to stay in a job if it made me more unhappy than it was worth. Her next piece of advice was to go into an interview with about 80% of the qualifications of the job were. She said from there, it was my job to sell the rest and figure it out once I got hired-this is how she claims to have moved up the ladder in her marketing career. 
	I met Casey through a presentation that she gave at my university, where she discussed the idea of digital natives, and old and new marketing techniques. She is an avid social media marketer and I was curious to find out how she thought this would change with the millenial generation seeing as we are less susceptible to media having grown up immersed in it. When I mentioned this to her, she said that she agreed, and that as a marketer, our generation would be interesting to target. She noted the generation’s brand loyalty and the need for a marketer to stand out. She said that she doesn’t see any decline in media marketing, rather a battle to stand out to those desensitized to it. 
My fourth question for Casey was, “When you aim to create a brand for a company, what are the strongest elements that you seek?” Once again she reiterated standing out to a consumer. Then she said that when she consults with a client whom she is going to do marketing for she always asks them what keeps them up at night. She does so with the intention of finding out the percieved competition and what they are doing. She then says she seeks the white space, the opportunity to stand out that has not been conquered yet. In doing so, she recommended in my future endeavors that I always keep in mind the DNA that the brand stands for, and that getting noticed will do a brand no good if it is not what they are known for. 
My final question for Casey was, “If you could only follow one company/brand on social media who would you choose and why?” I asked this question because I was recently prompted the same for a summer internship and was curious what her answer would be. She said that her favorite brand ever is Apple, however she would not follow them because their brand comes through new technology launches and holidays. Instead, she said that she would follow National Geographic. Not because they have a strong brand image or any advertising gimic, but because they feed her creativity, and creativity is what allows you to get ahead in the marketing world. 
Interviewing Casey, knowing that she had a slightly different take on marketing than me, was more insightful and had me thinking a lot more than I originally anticipated. Like I mentioned at the beginning of my reflection, I have an interview for a summer internship at a similar firm and I mentioned this to Casey. She was excited for me and she knew the company it’s reputation and some of the employees well. She was able to give me interview tips and offered to put in a good word for me. Coming from a similar background and region in our home state, we related a lot on the major businesses back home and she had very specific advice for me moving forward in a job search there as opposed to in Anytown. I was surprised by the advice she gave me about finding a job to pay the bills, her reasoning was that she got discouraged at that point in time and she wanted me to know that realistically, that was a possibility moving forward in the next few years. 
If given the opportunity to give advice to another student about these interviews, it would be to be comfortable and talk with them like you know them personally. I was very nervous about the interview and making sure to be professional and get academic questions and answers. But in this situation, you want real, honest answers about the career field you are about to spend the rest of your life in and it was very worthwhile for me to let my guard down and have that back and forth with Casey. 
I was very pleased with my interview with Casey, we had similar interests and backgrounds and were able to have a back and forth conversation while completing the assignment. She was very nice to talk to and very helpful. She offered to answer any questions I may face as a marketing student and as a former Winston Salem resident as I move forward in my career. I was pleased with this assignment and the outcome.
