Writing has never been my strong point in my academics. Coming into Fundamentals of College Writing I expected to be assigned multiple papers, that I would write with the same skills I learned in high school. Instead of only using these old skills, I was taught how to expand on these previous skills and make them versatile for many different writing styles. Each writing assignment that I completed helped me to use different techniques. Although I have learned many different things over the past 12 weeks, there are still things that I need to work on. I still need to work on my final editing process to perfect it before I turn the final copy in. Overall, this class has provided me with many styles of writing which I will use within the next four years and in my profession.
	Every day I write for many different audiences including emails to professors, texting my friends, and different writing assignments in my classes. The first goal of the class is, “Students will be able to compose differently for particular audiences, purposes, and genres.” This goal taught me that identifying and understanding your audience makes it easier to adapt your writing. In my Argumentative paper, I focused in on gun violence and tried to persuade gun advocates why gun control is so important. Understanding who my intended audience helped my writing to make it the most persuasive and informative. Also, my Fake News Article is intended to be on Teen Vogue’s website. Knowing this I knew my audience is teen girls. Identifying my reader helped me with my subject matter, and word choice. This skill will always be helpful, as I will continue to write, yet my audience will continue to change.
Most academic papers require multiple sources that add information to your paper. Before coming to college, I often wrote a thesis, and then would find sources that supported my claim. After this class I have learned that it is more effective to read widely on many sources and then form a claim. Goal number two, “Students will be able to read, interpret, select, and use evidence critically to formulate and support arguments.” I did this for my Argument paper; I analyzed many different credible sources to then focus on a specific idea.  After analyzing different databases, I was well informed regarding gun violence. This let me comprehend both viewpoints of the controversial subject. Also, each week I read different sources that were relevant to the topic we were discussing that week in salon. These sources when analyzed made it easy to write about the topic on Friday. I had to take the readings and apply them to the questions that we had for that week. Lastly the informational sessions in the library taught me how to navigate through online sources to find reliable sources. I learned about the online databases, and the different sources that are located in the library. Learning more about sources helped me make my writing stronger by being able to find strong support for the claims I was making. 
Literature can be presented in many different forms, especially in 2017 where our world revolves online. In this class I have definitely achieved the goal, “Students will be able to compose in multiple modes and media.” This has been achieved in my visual essay where I completed my essay in pictures on PowerPoint. For this assignment, I chose to describe the life of a college student. To do this I used a variety of images that included a student being overwhelmed with student debt, but then also showing the end goal of graduation. Also, my EPortfolio shows how I can write and upload literature online. On my EPortfolio all of my assignments are uploaded digitally. Lastly, in my Fake News I learned how to pick images that correlate to my subject matter. My article subject matter had to deal with Kim Kardashian dying her hair, so I screenshotted one of her Instagram posts, and then placed it in my article. Writing in different modes will be extremely helpful as our society is constantly changing with many different ways to share news and pieces of literature. 
In high school, I was taught how to write a standard five paragraph essay that I would slightly change for each assignment. My writing process has completely changed from this class. For each essay, we had the opportunity to get advice from our peer workshops. This has to deal with the fourth goal of the class which states, “Students will be able to describe and apply appropriate writing processes, both individual and collaborative.” Peer workshops were extremely helpful because it provided me an opportunity for someone else to read my work, and tell me what I had to work on before I turned it in for a final grade. Each peer workshop consisted of one of the group members reading my paper out loud, and then they each offered me advice on what I could work on. Someone else reading my paper out loud helped me catch grammar and sentence structure mistakes. With these peer workshops, I had to complete a revision plan which clearly outlined what I needed to fix in my paper.  Also, I met with Dr. Smith to rewrite my Unit 3 Assignment, and I went to her before an assignment was due to get feedback on my writing. This helped me clearly understand what needed to be fixed in the assignment to make it the best it can be. 
Within this first semester of college I have learned how to communicate and critical think in my school work. This is the one of the honors goals. Each week in Salon, I used the readings to analyze and critically apply to the topic that week. Salon consisted of current controversial topics. For example, one week we read articles regarding kneeling in the NFL, and then answered questions on our opinion from the readings. After we wrote for a half hour we would then discuss in the class the topic. Each week this provided an outlet to have academically challenging conversations with others. For the argument paper, I achieved this goal by deciding what stance I was going to take on the issue I wrote about. Critically analyzing sources made me realize that I believe that universal background checks need to be conducted in order to reduce gun violence.  After the Library Session, I learned how to identify if an article is fake news or not. When reading an article there are specific things a reader should look at to see if the article is fake or not. For example, you should look to see if there is a credible author attached to the story. This skill is helpful in the classroom, and also when reading articles online. 
The last honors goal states, “Students will be able to articulate insights into their own cultural, social, and political position in relation to regional, national, and international identities.” This goal was completed in my Memoir. In this piece, I wrote about how different events have shaped me to become the person I am today. For example, I wrote about how being a sister has shaped the person I am today. Also in salon, I had the opportunity to share my own opinion while still being able to listen to others. This let me understand other viewpoints based off of their own experiences. Dr. Smith created a safe space for everyone to feel accepted to share their opinion. These conversations challenged other viewpoints while still respecting their opinion. 
	All of these goals have helped me become a better writer. The skills I have learned in this class will be used throughout my entire time here at college. Beyond college, I will continue to write in my profession and my daily life. Although in my profession I might not be writing essays, I will be writing charts on patients. The skills I learned in this class will help to adapt whether I am writing for a doctor, peer, patient, or patient’s family. I am excited to take everything that I have learned in this course, and continue to use them in different settings and assignments. 
	Dr. Smith has permission to use my ePortfolio and its contents as an example in future classes.

