Subject: Community Service Reflection 

Organization
I visited Brunswick County Schools to help volunteer in Sam Doe’s kindergarten class. There are many different opportunities available and roles to fill, but all center on helping the students in the Brunswick country school district. They need help with tasks such as tutoring, eating lunch with them, or being a teacher assistant, which was what I chose.

Volunteer Roles/ Activities
Being a teacher for young children can be a challenge when there is one teacher, and an average of 20 children in the classroom. My volunteer role was to fill in where she could not. During that age, they are learning the alphabet, beginning to read words, developing motor skills while learning to print letters. I would work with them by encouraging, and assist them trace words they went getting familiar with that day. I would do everything from helping make copies of an activity worksheet, to passing out crackers, and helping the students open their juice boxes during snack time. The age they are in school it is very important for them to grow in a nurturing, and learning environment. They don’t have too much pressure put on them, they are there mostly there to get used to the formal school atmosphere. My favorite part was helping the kids with an activity like tracing a letter. It is such a simple task for me, but it has a huge impact on them, and it makes me feel good to be able to make a difference in their lives.

Experience Reflection
This was a very humbling experience because you forget how long ago it was when you were that age, and how they have their whole educational life yet ahead of them. I used to want to be an elementary school teacher when I was younger, so this volunteering experience, is definitely something I have always wanted to do. Being around and working with children, definitely shows you how easily their minds can absorb the world around them. Their minds are vulnerable, and the experiences they go through at this age effect how they are going to grow into adults, shaping the kind of person they are going to be. This is a simple example of how giving back to the community can impact our world for the better. When you fail to acknowledge and participate our duty of social responsibility, you can have the opposite effect. For example, a school in a more rural community where the student’s are more likely to lack a positive role model to look up to, it can effect the type of person they become. This can be a huge factor in deciding the kind of life they will one day end up leading. Social responsibility is very important and everyone should try to participate by giving back to his or her community. Even just assisting a few days at an elementary school can make a huge impact.
