Chapter 2 - Interpersonal Communication Competence
    There are 5 criteria that determine one’s communication competence: motivation and attitude, tolerance for ambiguity, open-mindedness, knowledge and skill, and patience and perseverance.      
    Motivation and attitude describes the desire to communicate successfully with strangers.  I personally I feel as though I am highly motivated to meet new people, especially those from other cultures.  My best friend is actually from Palestine, born and raised.  I tend to ask her about some things that differ from our culture and hers in order to learn as much as I can about her culture. I have also taken Sign Language in high school and learned a lot about the Deaf culture.  There are many things that may seem unusual to us but it is truly interesting that they communicate so different than we do.  For example, it is considered rude for someone to walk around two Deaf people when they’re talking.  To us, the opposite is true.  Little things like this really encourage me to learn all the little intricacies of different social cultures.  I am looking to hopefully meet an even more diverse group of people.  Personally, I think that being culturally conscious and having knowledge of other cultures really expands my communication in a way that allows me to appropriately and effectively talk to anyone.  
    As far as tolerance for ambiguity goes, I feel like I can do better.  I am definitely interested and compelled to talk to someone who is completely from another culture because I don’t know the language.  However, I do know certain things I should and shouldn’t do, which makes easing into communicating easier.  Nonetheless, I am wary and careful so that I don’t offend anyone, while also being enticed by their language.  I remember meeting a kid who was from France and knew little English.  At first I was wary when we spoke, but eventually we became good friends.  I feel like the initial hesitance could possibly getting in the way of other opportunities I have to meet new people.  Somewhere in the middle is where I think I land.
    Open-mindedness, I think, is a pretty easy trait to possess.  I don’t believe that any one person is better than anybody else.  I love different cultures and I plan to learn as many as I can, whether it be learning the language or living in the country which I plan on doing.  When I went to Italy one summer, I was completely open to trying new things.  I poured olive oil on all my food and watched a glass horse figurine being made from scratch.  I was encountered by a gypsy with one eye and saw old men tanning in thongs.  All of these things are parts of the culture and I loved every second of it.  
    I may not know all there is to know about communication in different cultures but I do know how to observe how other may communicate and try to apply it the best I can.  In high school, I met a kid who was from South Africa and he met others from South Africa as well so he would typically gravitate towards them.  Since I wanted to know how to communicate with him properly, I would watch how he and his friends would talk to each other, things that they did that I thought was strange and things that they refused to do that we usually would.  He told me he was okay with acting as I normally would when it was just him and me, as he, too, wanted to learn our culture.  But when I went with him to talk to his friends, I made sure to change my communication style to fit their standards. Any time I had a question, I would ask my friend about when it was just him and me, and he would do the same with me.
    I think I’m able to overcome any adjustment shock because I typically learn a language quickly and also find the challenge of a new culture exhilarating.  It may be tough at times to remember some of the small things that are socially unacceptable but I believe that trial and error is the best way to learn.  For example, back in my country I’ve had to be retaught many social lessons that I am not used to here, such as not questioning an elder for any reason.  It may have been my home country but since I don’t live there I tend to have to readjust every time I go back, and one summer I was sent along for three whole months.  It was hard at first but I was patient and pushed through any challenges I faced.  I feel as though I can apply this to any culture if it came down to it. 
    On the assessment on page 61, I got pretty good scores that I felt reflected me.  For cognitive cultural intelligence, motivational cultural intelligence, and for behavioral cultural intelligence I scored a 13, 18, and 22 respectively.