A New Perspective in Writing: Tools to Never Lose 
        	The American poet, memoirist, and civil rights activist, Maya Angelou published the article, “Letter to My Daughter,” in the beginning of 2012. The author speaks on her personal life events as a southern black American growing up in a racist era, with a dialect that creates a powerful interaction between the audience and herself. Maya Angelou’s objective is to connect with those who have had a similar lifestyle to hers. Examining and implementing the well-known rhetorical tools of allusive imagery followed with an emotional and relatable approach is an evolution in the understanding of writing expertise.
 	This article has a targeted audience specifically toward teenage women; structuring her use of rhetoric for the audience to relate with her past. I say this because the title of the book suggests that Angelou has a daughter, but she clearly states in her article, “Nine months later, I had a beautiful baby boy… Today, over forty years later, when I look at him and see the wonderful man he has become (37).” Since she does not incorporate any other recognition of children throughout the excerpt, the audience can assume that she has one child; which is a male; concluding that the title creates the allusion that this excerpt is for teenage women going through hardships compared to her past experience’s.
Angelou begins with allusive dialect connoting to the racism happening during the time of her youth. She uses pathos in the allusion, “My real growing up world…was a continual struggle… condition of surrender. Surrender first to the grown up human beings…Then submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people, who I saw rarely saw (4).” This pathos technique of word choice is used to persuade the audience to make a connection by reflecting on her past trials of submission to white people. This also indicates the expected race in her audience that she is speaking to.
I also feel Angelou’s incorporation of her, “submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people (4),” is a form of logos. I say this as a white male, understanding that Maya demonstrates perceived prejudice; which is not a natural, but nurtured trait that is commonly influenced by family culture. The author was born in an era where racial tensions were still strong, this lets the audience assume the logical reasoning to acknowledge that the African population in her region of the south, were treated with racism, by a majority of the white community in her area. Angelou solidifies the logistics to her thought of inferiority to whites by adding, “Poor white children had the license to address lauded and older blacks by their first names or by any names they could create (Angelou, 6).” This is her concrete evidence supporting her claim on her “Submission to inferiority to white people (Angelou, 4).” Acknowledging this stance of Maya Angelou shows the effective rhetoric being used.
        	“Letter to my daughter,” reminds me of a rhetoric piece of literature written by Reijo Savolainen, a communications and media studies professor, that is titled “The use of rhetorical strategies in Q&A discussion.” The emotional strategy that Angelou incorporates in her article through her experiences of hardship was effective in a way for her audience to be interested in her reading by making a connection with her writing and with their personal experiences. Angelou’s article connects with the section of Savolainen’s “The use of rhetorical strategies in Q&A discussion,” where he examines the online Q&A controversy of Global warming. Specifically, when Savolainen states, “…In debates…as Q&A sites, the use of rhetorical strategies may be particularly effective because the answers providing rival comments can appeal both to cognition (reason) and emotion (3).” This same presence of cognitive and emotional rhetoric in the comments seen in the online discussion is also demonstrated by Angelou. She states, “…But I am your mother and I am working some part of my anatomy off to buy you good clothes and give you well-prepared food and keep this roof over your head (21).” This quote to her audience of young teenage girls is an effective from a pathos perspective. Angelou’s "sit down talk to (21)," with her mother, from my perspective, is a talk many girls have with their mother in similar forms. By making this inference as a reader, we can see the effectiveness of the cognitive reasoning in the incorporation of her mother’s “sit down talk to (21).”
        	This rhetorical writing strategies in the approach of Maya Angelou’s, “A Letter to My Daughter,” is a perfect example in connection to communications professor, Samuel G. Lawrence; specifically examining his written article, “Waking Up Audiences: Lessons in Rhetorical Devices.” The article stated, “A fundamental challenge that all public speakers face…getting and keeping the attention of audiences… audiences absorb large amounts of talk with little chance of taking the ﬂoor, the potential for inattentiveness and boredom is signiﬁcant (1).” This thesis that Professor Lawrence presents in his writing has a direct connection with Angelou’s critique of her letter. Angelou accepts and overcomes this challenge Lawrence’s article provides by the way she conveys her life events in her article; with a dialect that makes it understandable, also relatable to her audience of black-teenage women facing relatable hardships in their life with hers.
Concrete forms of rhetoric allusions in pathos are also created by the way Maya Angelou introduces her pregnancy midway into the letter. She Says, “…boy had telephoned …told him yes...A friend had lent him his apartment. From the moment, I saw him at the door I knew I had made the wrong choice… There were no endearments spoken, no warm caresses shared…engagement lasted fifteen minutes…I don’t remember if we said goodbye…
…how much I wanted a long soaking bath...Nine months later, I had a beautiful baby boy (30-37).” From the audience perspective, the way Angelou connotates her personal thoughts and emotions though this troubling time is very effective and relatable to the teenage-girls going through an unexpected pregnancy. Being able to successfully view myself in the shoes of Angelou; recognizing an experience as troubling as the one-sided lustful experience of her pregnancy is a pillar of Angelou’s life that many teenage women can relate since the way she introduced the scenario was powerful and understanding to the teenage perspectives of the audience. The allusion made here, was that she was not expecting at lustful experience, nor was she expecting to have a child and raise it without the father.
Using these rhetorical strategies can indeed enhance linguistic writing skills by making a more powerful and effective stance. The language she uses has a dialect that persuades relation. The tone of her dialect is reflecting innocence and purity; which is believable, relatable and connotative to her audience of teenage women that experience similar life events.
 Angelou’s writing style of rhetoric conveys connotation regarding the “TED TALK” with a well-known philosopher and academic, Daniel Cohen. In his presentation, this Philosopher conveys three types of arguments; arguments as war, arguments as proofs, and arguments as performances (7:05).” Cohen concludes “Arguments as war are dead end; as proofs result in a wrong or right approach, and as performances are audience incorporated (3:51).” This “TED TALK,” connects to the evolution of academic linguistic literature. The argument strategies focus in high school writings are dead end like the arguments as war. College level writing has an objective of arguing proof through performance. Specifically meaning that and effective and interesting piece of writing typically involves logical standpoints with connotation to the audience perspective. I feel Angelou’s writing is a mix of persuaded proof by performance. With these claims accurately stated, Angelou writing is what college standard expects in an efficient piece of literature. It is key to connect with the audience for them to actively interact with your literature.
        	Being able to persuade your reader is key. Doing that requires a personal connection with logical evidence for your claim. Although we may seem like we have all components, we still need to incorporate the fact that we must have a dialect that’s understandable in relation to the audience. By incorporating these writing techniques, we can enhance our writings to a more sophisticated and presentable level. Angelou uses her teenage dialect as rhetoric in her letter to give the audience a sense of comfort and relation.
 The dialect Angelou uses into pathos when she describes what her mother’s California home felt like. She States, “The California house was a world away from that little home in which I grew up in Arkansas…My grandmother didn’t believe in hot curling women’s hair, so I had grown up with a braided natural. In California my mother wore lipstick and rouge and played loud blues music and jazz on a record player. Her house was full of people who laughed a lot and talked loudly. I definitely did not belong. I walked around in that worldly atmosphere, with my hands clasped behind my back, my hair pulled back in a tight braid, humming a Christian song (17).” This section of Maya Angelou’s experience returning to California was a rough experience. She alludes how her mother’s lifestyle was not as strict at her grandmother’s home in Arkansas. This quote alludes that her grandmother has an old religious soul conveyed by her own personal traits; by saying her mother’s home is a world away from her grandmother’s home, she doesn’t belong, humming a Christian song. All these traits are more pillars of connotation for the audience to the author. Maya’s dialect in describing the move from Arkansas to California demonstrates the pathos rhetoric we find throughout the life events incorporated into the excerpt. analyzing at the way she wrote this book was a prime example of a true relation between the author and their audience on a level where the rhetoric tools used could be overseen and interaction takes place.
        	Examining in the excerpt, “Letter to my daughter.” By Maya Angelou, I myself had overseen a form of pathos perspective that was so profound to her writing style the first time I read. Maya starts a new section in her writing, examining herself, “A boy…been asking me to be intimate...refused for months. It was during that time that I noticed my body’s betrayal. My voice...tall… no breasts…maybe if I had sex my recalcitrant body would grow up and behave as it was supposed to behave. That morning…I told him yes (39).” This is a relatable topic Angelou is bringing into her story before her pregnancy. I myself know some teenage women in my life that feel that way about their self; which leads to assume that this thought of being self-consciousness of physical appearance is common among the targeted audience. Angelou is choosing these specific hardships in her life reasonably for the audience to reflect interactive cognition regarding to her article.
Towards the end of Angelou’s, “Letter to my daughter,” we see an allusive theme created by the words spoken by her mother. After Angelou had confessed to her father about how she was pregnant, her mom came to evaluate the situation. After all questions were asked, her mother states, "There is no reason to ruin three lives; our family is going to have a wonderful baby (59)." This conclusion to her letter is a concrete allusion for the audience to connect with; by Maya Angelou incorporating this statement, we can see that she wants her audience to be able to think optimistically about things in life through her mother’s words of love and affection. This motherly love that teaches optimism is something the audience can relate, understand, and for them to be able to implement this theme into their perceptions of life; proving the effectiveness of the allusive pathos through a logistic perspective with the audience viewpoint in mind. Knowing that these tactics of rhetoric enhanced the foundation of Angelou’s written communication, us wordsmith’s must incorporate these strategies into our writings. If we successfully do this, we can evolve our writings to an even greater standard.
 

Works Cited
Angelou, Maya. “Letter to my daughter.” Signature (2012).
Cohen, H. Daniel. “For Argument’s Sake.” TED Talks (2013). Web.
Lawrence, Samuel G. “Waking up Audiences: Lessons in Rhetorical Devices.” Communication Teacher, vol. 29, no. 4, 2015, pp. 212–218.
Savolainen, Reijo. "The Use of Rhetorical Strategies in Q&A Discussion." Journal of Documentation 70.1 (2014): 2-25. Web.
