 Problems with Autism Speaks

               One would think an organization called Autism Speaks who has a lot of support and people running in marathons for them would be a fantastic place to donate to. This is just not true, and a lot of people do not know this because they blindly donate to a cause without actual research. People are none the wiser from simply donating looking at the cover image, and not searching what is underneath. Autism Speaks does not use their funds wisely and they focus on the parents rather than the people with autism. 
                 My brother has autism. So my family personally knows how difficult it is to raise a child with autism. My mother often had to deal with me when I was a baby along with my brother, and sister out in public alone. My brother would throw a fit screaming that our mom was not his mom and cause a scene. He did this because he was overstimulated. My mother would then have to drag him back to the car and drive home with him kicking and screaming in the back. My brother, who is now twenty three, is just now getting things together like getting a job. It took him a while but now that he wants to do something with his life he will. Autism Speaks made a video about a mother speaking about how she had wanted to drive off a bridge with her autistic child, with her child sitting right next to her. While raising a child who is different is hard, a charity that talks about helping autistic people, having this represent their organization is horrible. People who support Autism Speaks are not aware of the fact that is is a bad cause. It is set up for people to believe that it is good.When looking on Autism Speaks about page, the front they put on looks convincing as is proven in this quote “Autism Speaks is dedicated to promoting solutions, across the spectrum and throughout the lifespan, for the needs of individuals with autism and their families through advocacy and support…”(“About”). And if one does not look into it, they never know the horrible sides of it.  
            According to a 2015 data collection Autism Speaks only uses 4% of their funds to actually help autistic children and their families, while 39% goes to awareness and lobbying, 32% goes to research, and 24% goes to fundraising. “While 32% of its budget goes toward research, only a small percentage of this research is aimed at improving the quality of life of autistic people. Most of the research that Autism Speaks funds is devoted to causation and “prevention,” including the prospect of prenatal testing”(“Before”). They also only have 2 autistic people out of 28 individuals on their board of directors. They are not financially responsible, as they pay their directors a substantial amount proved by this quote from Autism Advocacy “Although Autism Speaks has not prioritized services with a practical impact for families and individuals in its budget, its rates of executive pay are the highest in the autism world: some salaries exceed $395,000 a year”(“Before”). The rates and percentages of where money goes is just unbelievable.  
             Their advertisements and campaigns make it seem like autistic people are to be feared and should be ‘eliminated’. There is a horrible video called ‘I am Autism’ where it talks about autism tearing families apart. Here are a few lines from this “Your money will fall into my hands, and I will bankrupt you for my own self-gain. I don’t sleep, so I make sure you don’t either. I will make it virtually impossible for your family to easily attend a temple, birthday party, or public park without a struggle, without embarrassment, without pain. You have no cure for me”(“Horrific”). The organization does not talk about what autistic people feel, or that they even have emotions or a personality. They focus on the parents and how hard it is for them to deal with the children. While it is a very difficult thing to deal with Autism Speaks does not need to just focus on the issues parents face with autistic children.The following quote from Autism Advocacy proves some of this “Autism Speaks’ advertisements and “awareness” campaigns portray autistic adults and children not as full human beings, but as burdens on society that must be eliminated as soon as possible”(“Before”). Putting things like this out is not a very good thing for a charity to do.
          In conclusion, Autism Speaks should not be as supported as they are.  An alternative charity that one can donate to is Autism Advocacy who actually use their money to help autistic people and their families. Charities are amazing but not all of them are trustworthy causes. Just because a charity like Autism Speaks is so well known, does not mean they don’t have underlying issues. Before one donates to a charity, they should research where exactly that money is going to.







                                                                                                Works Cited
“About Us” Autism Speaks. 13 November 2017. 
“Before you donate to Autism Speaks, consider the facts” Autistic Advocacy. 10 November 2017.
“Horrific Autism Speaks “I am Autism” ad transcript” Autistic Advocacy. 10 November 2017.