Analysis of purple hibiscus Prompt C















Eugene is the father of kambili and Jaja in the book purple hibiscus. He is a devout catholic and is very strict with his religion and belief. Eugene has a very complex relationship with his family as he Is a loving father but also is very violent due to his strict beliefs in how his children and family should act. In the story, he is a loving father but there are many things he disagrees with which causes him to act a certain way with his family. How does Eugene’s attitude affect his family over the course of the novel? Eugene’s attitude creates a lot of violence, pain, and emotional damage to his family. 

In chapter one, it starts off in Palm Sunday. The family goes to mass but Jaja does not receive communion. As the family gets home, Papa confronts Jaja about why he has not received the host. (p. 6) Jaja does not seem to give such a good response and says that the bread gives him bad breath. Papa gets upset about this response and throws his missal at him which completely misses Jaja and breaks Mama’s figurines. In this we can see how religion causes Papa to be angry and react in such a way to be violent with his son. Later in that chapter we see that Papa always likes to give love sips to his children from his tea, as Kambili thinks the burning of the tea on her tongue expresses her Father’s love towards her. Papa’s attitude towards his children is very complex as in one instance he is very upset but in another he wants to be loving and caring.

Papa’s attitude does not change as we continue the story we see that it seems as he prefers his religion over his family’s health. (p. 29) When they go visit Father benedict, Mama says that she does not feel well and rather stay in the car. But Papa keeps insisting that she comes in. In this part of the story we see that Papa wouldn’t like to look bad in front of father Benedict because his wife is not there. As they are on the way back home, it seems as if Papa is really upset about Mama’s decision to want to stay in the car. Later in the chapter they stay after mass praying for Mama’s forgiveness. Eugene seems to make himself look so perfect as it seems like he never commits anything wrong, so he is always blaming everyone else for their sins. 
             
In chapter in eleven. We see that Jaja and Kambili are looking at a painting from Papa-Nnukwu. When Papa comes in he starts to sway back and forth in rage. (p. 210) He takes the painting and rips it. He seems very angry and at some point jealous because they have a painting of his father. It seems really weird because he treats his wife’s parents differently. He yells at Kambili and starts kicking her with his metal buckled shoes while yelling about heathens and hell. She then passes out. When she wakes up she is at the hospital and her mom is crying beside her. She later sees Papa crying and calling her his “precious daughter”. This is very odd because he was the one to put her in the hospital in the first place, but then acts like such a loving father praying over her and crying that she can get better. 

In conclusion Papa is a loving father but his anger and personality take over whenever there is something that he does not like or agree with. In the story, he contradicts himself a lot as in one moment he is very upset and angry but in the next one he is very loving and caring. This creates a complex relationship between him and his family due to making them feel scared but at the same time happy. Which is at some point confusing due to the drastic changes in Papa’s attitude.
