The ideology behind the American Dream was created by the colonizers who came here to pursue the greater things in life. That idea of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness that they strived for has lost its coherence as time progresses. The dream is only accessible to those who have the power fueled by the money in their pockets. The 1% consistently lives the reality of peace and prosperity while those in lesser circumstances will never have this security. The false hope they have falsified will lose its significance as the poor continues their struggle. The unilateral gap between the rich and the poor inhibits those in poverty because the rich continuously develops monetary obstacles blocking the lower class success;  the rich utilizes their political power to restrict the growth of the lower scale of America's hierarchy; and the rich reinforces systematic forms of oppressive policies stopping any lower class bold enough to reach for the “American Dream.”
The American Dream seems to lie on the values of greed and prosperity. Therefore, the only way it seems to be able to achieve this ideal is through monetary gain. For the upper class this feat is feasible, for the lower class it is nearly impossible. In the film Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream one of the narrators illustrates this viewpoint by injecting “There are some in society that have a lot of access, a lot of social mobility, a lot of resources to do the things they want. As opposed to other people who are more disadvantaged, more underprivileged, don’t have the same levels of resources (03:13-03:27).” Reinforcing that the circumstances that one of the individuals on the lower scales in life cannot propel them into a higher class in the economy. The rich have better neighborhoods, lower petty crime rates, better schooling and a multitude of other great opportunities to prosper. Meanwhile, the poor have a consistently high crime rate, some of the worse public schooling and their environment is in turmoil and hopelessness. The rich path to success was fueled by lust and greed. They want to live to the fantasies they have in their heads while they use that money to keep the poor from doing the same.
Politics has centered around personal morals and ethics people have as they navigate through this society so it is not surprising the rich and poor share vastly different views. The rich seeming to lean towards traditional, conservative views on how the government should run. One of the main focuses of the film Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream was “It’s about the wealth interests using the political system to rig the rules in their favour (15:21-15:26)” The dilemma is how the 1% such as the Koch brothers spend their money influencing the outcome of what should be a democracy in their favor. For instance Paul Ryan utilizes Ayn Rand views on the government and ran with a budget plan during his campaign, a budget plan highly favored by republicans and the upper class. Evidently, Ryan is one of the highest paid campaigner by the Koch brothers as one of the narrators said in the film “Money is being used to buy results” and by the behaviors exhibited by people like the Koch brothers illustrates this point. The Koch brothers are notorious for their hands being in political reforms such as the impeachment of Bill Clinton and they are the prime example of how money influences power.
While there are the higher ups campaigning for laws in their favor, they are also fueling the stigma tied towards the poor youth of this country. The economy is already in the favor of the 1% yet they continuously shut the poor without a voice away. “In 2012 alone, the U.S. spent nearly 81 billion on corrections” Instead of utilizing their wealth to assist in the growth of the poor, they used this money to keep them below them by jailing them on petty crimes. This particularly affects the black youth who are incarcerated at a higher rate than any youth nationwide before they have a chance to navigate this society. According to the Crime Rate Fact sheet in NAACP website “Nationwide African-American children represent 32% of children who are arrested, 42% of children who are detained and 52% of children who cases are judicially waived to the criminal court.” according to these statistics, the black youth are tossed into jail more than the white youths in this country for committing the same heinous crimes.
Opponents of these views present several arguments such as the reason the poor cannot get ahead is because they do not take advantage of the tools handed to them in order to succeed. That the reason they are not successful is because they are dependent on government programs such as EBT, TANF, healthcare programs etc. Another opposing view is the reason politics are not in their favor of the poor is because they do not consistently vote for the delegates they want in office. Although, this is necessarily true according to statistics of the voter turnout  “Now, newly released Census Bureau data confirm what many have anticipated: that both minority and black voter turnout took a decided downturn in last November’s elections” it is a misleading truth. Lastly, the last opposition to the claim presented would be that America has progressed and they do not target poor communities, they are protecting the poor from themselves. The crime rates are infamously high in poor communities and the black youth make up the largest quantity of inmates to this day.
All of these points have some validity to them; however, these views may easily be refuted. With this in mind the programs they talk about have helped a number of families but the rich pushes their budget plan that would take the funding away from such programs. Paul Ryan proposed a budget plan inspired by Ayn Rand, a woman with extreme capitalist views which would have cut funding from programs such as social security and food assistance programs and a plethora of others. His budget is noted as the ‘path to prosperity” yet the only ones who will prosper is the rich not the poor. This is plan is fundamentally effective but only to a certain extent. When the person they are voting for favors their morals and ethics, they are more willing to wait in hour long lines to vote for their candidate. 
The candidates brought forth have not pleased the poor in a long time especially with the current president we have in office. Some of their candidates are the epitome of everything they hate about America so the turnout will be increasingly lower than usual. There are not many people willing to vote against everything they believe in in order to get tax breaks or any extra commodities. Lastly, the rich are not protecting the poor from themselves, they are helping create the turmoil. The youth feel as though hope is gone and the American Dream is a fantasy. They see their parents struggle to pay for their homes and struggle to raise their siblings and they lash out. The film brought up a valid point that “over 45% of the people of this country don’t pay income taxes at all, and we have to question whether that’s fair (47:22-47:30)” The unemployment have steadily increased so the amount of people paying income has drastically decreased but the poor still have to pay other federal and state tasks. Yet, they ask the poor that are not in the circumstances the wealthy have thrived in to pay more taxes they are unwilling to pay for themselves.
Closing the claim presented the American Dream is not tangible for everyone in this country. The rich continuously develops monetary obstacles blocking the lower class success and that strains the middle class family where they lose hope. The rich utilizes their political power to restrict the growth of the lower scale of America's hierarchy to the point where they are stuck in the lesser circumstances and observe the American Dream from afar. Consequently, the rich reinforces systematic forms of oppressive policies stopping any lower class bold enough to reach for that “American Dream” jailing them and locking them in brick confinements helps with the propaganda the 1% pushes to the middle to lower classes. The feeling of despair has become a common topic and the idea of hope and happiness is a distant dream. At first they rant and rebel about these injustices but after a while they conform and become a part of the status quo.