Rhetorical Analysis of News
	The 20th century consists of a society revolving around technology. Everyone wants to have the latest IPhone and laptop. This isn’t just a way to interact with others, yet is where most receive their news. Websites are used for a variety of purposes, especially to inform readers. Teen Vogue is a website whose audience consist of teen females; it offers a website which primarily focuses on topics regarding fashion, entertainment, beauty, lifestyle, and wellness. AARP is a website whose audience consist of retired males and females. It has subject matter that include saving money, books to read, and where to vacation. After analyzing both of these websites it is evident that the layout and subject matter have a direct correlation in regard to the audience both websites are trying to reach. 
	An important part of any website is its layout. For Teen Vogue, the layout offers a visual approach with lots of pictures. The millennials grew up in a generation that revolves around pictures, so Teen Vogue uses this technique to entertain their audience. Also, the website has direct interaction with social media. All over the website there are links to Facebook, Twitter, and Pinterest to offer the readers another outlet to read more about a topic, talk to others about the topic, or share the current article they are reading. Also, often in the articles there are direct links to tweets or posts on Instagram that correlate to the subject matter. Often, they found a tweet from a celebrity that correlated to the article. This combines young girls love of celebrities and social media. Teen Vogue also offers videos at the bottom of each article which relates to the topic the audience was reading about. Also after reading multiple articles on Teen Vogue, it was seen that often in the articles pictures are included to break up the information. For example, the article will have a couple sentences, then have a picture that correlates to the topic, and then continue with information with information after the picture. This technique is used multiple times with an article. Often it is said that younger people have shorter attention spans, so maybe the author of these articles thought that using pictures would be an effective way to break up the information. All of these components work together to amuse the visual readers that millennials have come to. The people that visit this website grew up in a technological and graphic era. Their lives revolve around social media and technology which Teen Vogue uses to their advantage to interest their audience.
	AARP’s website has a different layout than Teen Vogue. This is expected since these two websites are appealing to vastly different readers. AARP has a simpler layout. There are not any social media references. Also, AARP website is highly advertised trying to get readers to subscribe to become a member. When you initially go onto the website over ten times there are advertisements for membership. This is because AARP knows that most retired people have money that they could use for a subscription service, rather than Teen Vogue who knows their audience is mostly younger girls who have no job or make minimum wage. AARP has few videos on their website because often their readers would rather read more information than listen and watch in a video.  AARP understands the best layout of their website to maximize how many readers go to their website. The graphics and layout of each website directly correlate to the generation of the audience their website portrays to. 
	Teen Vogue’s articles subject matter is very specific to the audience they reach. Most of the articles feature what is important to a fifteen-year-old girl, this is a combination of hair tips, emoji’s, and Justin Bieber’s new girlfriend. For example, in “How to Straighten Hair: 11 Flat Iron Tips for Perfectly Straight Hair”, the author describes different tips and techniques that can be used to get the perfect sleek hair. In this article the author uses quotes from celebrity stylists and creators of popular hair brands, “"Take a paddle brush to comb the conditioner through," suggests stylist Sarah Potempa (who's worked with Lea Michele)” (Picardi). The author purposely references that the stylist works with the celebrity Lea Michele because it offers credibility to the audience. Teenage girls are interested in people who direct contact with the hottest celebrities in Hollywood. Therefore, they assume Lea Michele’s hair dresser must have all the best hair secrets, because she styles Lea’s hair. These techniques are used throughout the entire website to make it more attractive to their audience.
The likes and hobbies of teenage girls and retired men and female obviously are different which shows in the subject matter of their website. AARP subject matter includes Medicaid, caregiving, and social security. AARP’s articles often include a lot of information for people who have the time to leisure read. For example in the article House Unveils Tax Cut Plan, there are direct links to actual government documents, “House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would boost economic growth by cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent”(1). Readers have the option to click on Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and read the official government document. This is done on purpose because their readers have the time to click and continue to in depth read about the topic, rather than on other articles where they would just summarize what the document said. Also, older generations have more appreciate for primary documents rather than millennials. Younger people would rather have someone summarize what documents states rather than read the whole thing themselves. This style of writing provides a different type to inform readers that is specialized to individuals that are retired. 
After taking a closer look into what comprises websites, it is helpful to understand why websites are designed they are. Often these components are specialized to the type of audience they are trying to reach. This is often used in writing. Word choice, types of sources, visual images are all used to specifically please a reader. When writing any piece of literature, it is important to understand who your audience is, and how you are going to appeal to them in order to make your piece be the best it can. 

	













Works Cited
Picardi, Phillip. “How To Straighten Hair: 11 Flat Iron Tips for Perfectly Straight Hair.” Teen Vogue, TeenVogue.com, 9 Nov. 2017, www.teenvogue.com/story/top-ten-flat-iron-mistakes. 
Strauss, Gary. “House Republicans Unveil Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.” AARP, 2 Nov. 2017, www.aarp.org/politics-society/advocacy/info-2017/tax-bill-americans-fd.html.
