Chasing the American Dream Possible ?

Since the beginning of time  the Rich and Poor have had variations of definitions of the term the “American Dream”. The Term of the American Dream has wandered off into many different perspectives and mainly people think it's mainly about having a nice job and family and being able to financially take care of yourself and making sure that you can live your life nice and easier with having money. But the issue of the American Dream is basically comes from people thinking that  the American Dream that they think about when they living their lives.
While others such as the Rich seems that it an achievable goal to rich if they try their hardest and go after those opportunities.  But I believe that the poor can achieve their american dream if they really believe in themselves and work hard as they can.

One of the argument that is  from the poor is stating that the poor can achieve the american dream by getting into programs and organizations to put an forth an effort of getting into a standard value of opportunities that the rich are given too. Being into those programs can push the poor to do things that they felt like they couldn’t do before. Organizations also give benefits of being rewarded with opportunities of networking or being rewarded with clothes to make their appearance for interviews and feeling confident. 
The poor feels like living in their environmental condition and not having all the nice and fancy and presentable things would make things easier to be considered for more opportunities for jobs and etc. In particular situations such as apply for a job and actually being interviewed for the position. Employers usually look at the applicant appearance and how well they carry themselves and how well their skilled in their field of work. In most situations the employer would choose an applicant who appears like their know they are a well worthy applicant and who is confident and is better risk.

   Living the American  Dream the poor can definitely achieve the american dream by having the right mindset of reaching their goals by progressing in the right steps and also doing little things to put forth an effort like applying for internships or get involved into work. Or also just getting a basic job and working your way up to the top like management and making sure that your doing the right steps like acting as if your working to achieve your goals.  Having the surroundings of positivity can help with having the confident and brave mindset. Even living in a poor environment can benefit them because the poor can be given too many people just because they have a disadvantage in their lives.

The poor claim they no resources to getting better opportunities for their american dream. The they feel as like their lives don’t really matter because of they way they are looked upon  by others such as the rich. The poor feels as their lives aren’t being fulfilled in a manner of not being able to have the nicer things in life and aren’t taken seriously with job recruiters just because of they appear. 

Also the poor believes that they can’t fend for themselves when finding a job opportunities because they feel like they’re not going to be ready and equipped to do their job so they don’t go to the job interview because they get scared.


The argument of the Rich vs Poor on not achieving the american dream is mainly focused on the outlook of the environmental conditions that the poor has had. Also  the poor doesn't have the opportunities to prove themselves to an employers that they can be taken seriously because of they can’t afford decent clothes to go to an interview a job. Or also not being able afford transportation to get to the interview so they can get money to financially take care of themselves. 

In Conclusion The Poor has to do think smarter there  the average rich person to get to their american dream. Having to reach the american dream it’s stress reliever because you're finally in a position where you can take care of yourself and make sure that your future is set and in a good place. The argument of whether the poor can or can’t reach the american isn’t a question because it's not impossible. It  takes progressive steps to get reach a goal so taking the proper steps to get their dreams. Anyone can make their dreams possible if they just believe in themselves. 

Clark, Jonas. “In Search of the American Dream.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 1 May 2007,www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/06/in-search-of-the-american-dream/305921/.

Clark, Jonas. “In Search of the American Dream.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 1 May 
The author Clark Jonas addresses the issues of how the rich and poor consider the term “American Dream” . And How the american dream idea has changed since its been introduced into exist. He added in that an another stated “ he wrote in The American Epic (a book glowingly reviewed in the Atlantic’s December 1931 issue), was “that dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement.” This statement has moved on to an new interpretation of an american dream and how the poor receives the  new idea of the new fond way of living. I can use article to set examples of how the rich and the poor defines the way of their own perspectives on living with the American Dream.

Shapiro, Adam. “The American Dream in Crisis: USA Nears Two Class Society, Rich and Poor.”Fox Business, Fox Business, 4 Apr. 2016,     www.foxbusiness.com/politics/2016/04/04/american-dream-in-crisis-usa-nears-two-class-society-rich-and-poor.html.

Semuels, Alana. “Severe Inequality Is Incompatible With the American Dream.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 10 Dec. 2016, www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/12/equality-of-opportunity/510227/.
This article explains the economic growth between the economic ladder throughout the decades between the years it also shows the proof of the unequal society with the rich and the poor.”Alana Samuels added this quote The idea that an unequal society allows the wealthy to dictate policies that help themselves has very troubling implications in a country that just elected a president who seems focused on putting the wealthy in charge. This article gives me a an accurate proof of reason of why American can feel that they cannot achieve the American Dream.


WhyPoverty. YouTube, YouTube, 5 Jan. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So.
This film illustrates the society of rich vs poor It shows the economic difficulty between social status of between the two. The film shows the wide variety of the rich and poor battling it out in how should pay taxes and how they should be lowered or raised in the stock. Also it focuses on the politics of the upcoming election between the politicians. It goes in depth of how society is challenged with the antics of the elections campaign. And the backlash from the society is taking a toll on how this issue should be dealt.
