Is College General Education A Waste Of Time?
Many college students are wasting way too much time and money on general education courses that they are required to take and end up with large quantities of student debt. Most of these classes that students are required to take in order to graduate have nothing to do with their major. In the article, “Sources of Stress for Students in High School College Preparatory and General Education Programs: Group Differences and Associations with Adjustment” the author, Shannon Suldo, argues that academic requirements are the number one reason students are stressed out. In fact, these students have more symptoms of reduced academic functioning and psychopathology. Students in college preparatory classes are even more stressed than people with conflict within their family and other categories of stress (Suldo 1). They are becoming increasingly overwhelmed by all of the general education courses which they are required to take. Although scholars have settled on the general education requirements in college, they still need to enroll students in classes that relate to their major. Therefore, universities must reform the requirement of general education courses in college by customizing the requirements from areas A, B, C, D, and E for every major. In another article, “The dollars and sense behind general education reform” the authors Anne Ferren and Ashby Kinch bring in a different perspective within their article when they ask if reforming general education would be worth the money for the schools (1). Students will actually enjoy taking all of their required courses and work harder, if universities do decide to reform. Thus, resulting in more graduates and further student retention.
Foundation is the first section of the general education requirements for engineering students, this first section of requirements is also known as area A which is Fundamental Skills and Knowledge. Area A includes Oral Communication, Written Communication, Critical Thinking, and Quantitative Reasoning, this is the one of the sections in the general education requirements for engineering majors that makes some sense. Students have been taking English their whole lives and already know how to communicate through both spoken and written words. Writing a two thousand and five hundred word essay is not necessarily something an engineer should have to do on a regular basis. Which is why this very writing assignment and course is a prime example of something that could be swapped with a course that teaches writing that is more specific to the engineering major. For example, writing assignments such as how to write professional emails or how to become more skilled at getting engineering-specific ideas or research onto paper, to present to others. After all, critical thinking is one of the requirements that engineering majors are exempt from taking since they will be taking courses for their major requirements to teach that anyways. Oral communication, on the other hand, is vital to all majors because no matter what an individual decides to do in life, they will always communicate with other people, whether it be verbal or nonverbal communication. Finally, the quantitative reasoning is the math requirement, that is acceptable because math will always be apart of an engineer's life. 
Moreover, Breadth is the main section of the general education requirements, this section includes areas B, C, D, and E. Area B is Physical Universe and its Life Forms. Physical Sciences, Life Sciences, and a Laboratory Component are all mandatory because the university believes students need these classes in order to be qualified to get their degree. Chemistry is the first requirement, which does include knowledge about raw materials from the periodic and has some math incorporated within it. The life science requirement is just biology, which is a course that engineering students should be exempt from. Biology teaches students how to have good hygiene and about sexual reproduction, which is something all of those students should already know if they are attending college or if they took the course in high school the Lab portion of the biology class is also unnecessary in excess. It is unnecessary because students in this class learn how to look through microscopes to see cell walls and about other With that being said, engineering students should only be required to take chemistry and the lab that goes with it.
 Area C is Arts and Humanities where individuals either have to take the arts or the humanities requirement. Engineering majors are exempt from the arts requirement but must take the humanities one, which is a good start but they should be exempt from both. They should be exempt from both because these requirements were already fulfilled in high school. Furthermore, Philosophy is a course that is supposed to make engineers consider ethical problems more professionally, but that is more common sense than anything else and if students are planning to enter a career as an engineer without common sense, they should really reconsider. 
The last two areas D and E are the Social, Political, and Economic Institutions and Behavior, Historical Background section and the Lifelong Understanding and Self-Development requirements. Engineering majors are actually exempt from area E, so the university did a great job filtering that out of the requirements. However, they did not exempt those students from any of the history requirements which I agree with. The best way to become a great engineer is to learn how other engineers came up with and built new ideas in the past. The first requirement in area D is American history which would teach engineering students about America's past and how to build on the good but to not repeat the bad parts. The next section is American Government which is also very important for engineering students. After these students get their bachelors in engineering they usually end up going into other fields of work and one of the most prevalent fields is business. If students want to be successful in business, they must have a good understanding of the American government and how everything works.Therefore this course requirement is justified for engineering students. The next requirement they must fulfill is Social Sciences which has a ton of options to chose from. Even with all of the available options, there is still no real use for courses such as Africana studies or Jewish studies. However, one course that is listed that would be useful for engineering majors is Economics which in high school at least taught the students about topics that you can apply in your everyday life like how credit works. Although all of these students have already taken these classes in high school and may not feel like they need to take them again, the colleges think otherwise and want to make the students pay for these courses. Again, this seems unnecessary and quite literally, highly repetitive. 
There are also upper division general education courses which require students to take at least six units. These courses must be taken after completing sixty total units. Moreover, it is split up into two sections: one is Integration and the other is the Multicultural/International division. Even though there are three requirements in the integration section, engineering students only need to take one course in 1B. This is the physical universe and it’s life forms where they have a course for each different kind of engineering major. The only other courses engineering majors are required to take are in the Multicultural/International section, which only offers political science. These requirements seem very reasonable and will help the engineering students not have to take any more classes than they already have to. So, at least in regards to the upper division courses, my college got it right.
General education is the required curriculum that makes up the foundation of an undergraduate degree. If every student is going to be required to take these courses, the colleges should revise the requirements at least every four years, at a minimum. My college has already slightly attempted these revisions for engineering students, even though the university should be customizing the requirements to fit each specific major. In fact, the last major revision was made seventeen years ago. One way that my college could begin this process is to gather feedback and ask graduates which courses they felt benefitted them in both their real lives and within the classroom. If they do not think that a course was helpful or beneficial to furthering them towards their goal of getting their degree, then they can suggest a course to replace the useless class. After the university has seen the results from these various student surveys, they will realize that organizing these courses to specific majors is very important for both the students and the professors. The main reason why this would be important for the students is the fact that they do not want to pay for a class that does not help them in their major or in life. These students should not have to suffer through a course that will have no relevance and not be helpful to their future goals Professors obviously do not want to teach a bunch of students that believe the class is a joke and a waste of everyone’s time.
	College students are wasting a large quantity of their time and money when they have to take these required courses. Although completely eradicating the general education requirement is unrealistic, there is still hope for these students who are living on a strict budget. In the article, “The Impacts of State Control Policies on College Tuition Increase” the authors Mikyong Minsun Kim and Jangwan Ko inform the audience about how college tuition in America has been on the rise for many years now. In fact, these tuition fees have shown continual growth by about one hundred and three percent from 1996 to 2010. The authors also show that household incomes have only increased by around thirty-nine percent (Kim and Ko 816). Therefore, since tuition is increasing faster than household, incomes it will become steadily more difficult for students to pay for tuition each year. If students were not required to take all of their general education courses, which account for around thirty six-units, they would not have to pay for about three extra semesters of college tuition and many other various campus fees. Taking thirty-six units of courses that do not relate to an individual’s major or help an individual in real life, is something that no student should have to endure in order to earn their degree. 
	College students are usually always highly stressed out about the amount of work they are required to do for their classes. No one enjoys constantly worrying about “busy work” or homework that will not help them in the future. However, they continue to stress and endure high levels of anxiety because these classes are filled with unnecessary assignments, students know that completing them can determine whether they can get their degree or not. In the previously mentioned article, “Sources of Stress for Students in High School College Preparatory and General Education Programs: Group Differences and Associations with Adjustment” the author Shannon Suldo proves this claim to be valid. She claims that students in college preparatory courses are extremely stressed (Suldo 1). That stress is directed related to the useless courses. These young students are stressed out because those general education courses include a lot of busy work that takes up a lot of their time, unlike normal high school classes. Students should be involved in more activities that will directly benefit them. For the most part, the reason these students are having such a hard time is because they are not motivated to do the work for this class and start to complete the work just to get a good grade and not to learn. If these students are already stressed just from taking one or two advanced classes imagine what happens to students the following year when they jump right into all college-level classes. Most cannot handle it and end up dropping out, which is not what schools want.
	Universities have always put a lot of focus on student retention each year. More students attending the college equals more income from all of the students paying for the overpriced tuition fees which is exactly what these universities want. In the article, “Differences by Course Discipline on Student Behavior, Persistence, and Achievement in Online Courses of Undergraduate General Education” the authors Catherine Finnegan, Morris Libby V. and Lee Kangjoo shows why the colleges need student retention. They also mention how online courses are extremely hard to boost retention since they can not have these students on campus to get involved with extracurricular activities and face to face interactions. The focus of this article is the research behind getting online student retention (Finnegan, Libby V and Kangjoo 2). If student retention is really that important to colleges then they would reform the general education requirements. This would help with student retention because the first year students who take these courses would start off doing classes that actually mean something to them which is refreshing after having to take somewhat useless classes throughout high school.
	Most college students always end up finding themselves accumulating a lot of debt throughout the years it takes for them to get their degree. In the article, “A Record One-in-Five Households Now Owe Student Loan Debt” the author Richard Fry shows a few statistics about households with outstanding student from nineteen eightynine to two thousand ten. A bar graph that is included gives the reader a visual of the rise in debt of the years. In nineteen eightynine only nine percent of households had student debt but in two thousand ten this percentage increased all the way up to nineteen percent (Fry 1). This means that now in two thousand seventeen between twenty to thirty percent of households have student debt. The importance behind this is the fact that more and more students are finding themselves with student debt because of all of the courses they have to take. Another startling statistic from Richard Fry’s article was that, “By two thousand ten, ten percent of student debtor households owed more than $61,894” (2). This statistic sheds light on just how much these students are being taken advantage of by the universities. Colleges could decrease the amount of tuition that students have to pay but they never will because students keep applying to go there and continue to rack up student debt. If universities would reform the general education requirements then some of the students would be exempt from more classes and end up spending less money in the long run.
	These college students are being ripped off every year by the university's expensive tuition prices. They are spending money on classes that will not help them later on in life after college when they start their careers. Students are stressing over general education classes when they should be focusing on their classes that relate to their majors. Many people know that this is a problem in the education system and it needs to be fixed. With all that being said universities need to reform their general education requirements for each specific major by making sure that the classes they are taking will help them do better in their required major courses and in their career. 
	
	
Works Cited
Ferren, Anne S., and Ashby Kinch. "The dollars and sense behind general education reform." 
Peer Review 5.4 (2003): 8-11.
Finnegan, Catherine|Morris Libby V.|Lee Kangjoo. “Differences by Course Discipline on Student 
Behavior, Persistence, and Achievement in Online Courses of Undergraduate General Education.” Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory & Practice, Baywood Publishing Company, Inc. 26 Austin Avenue, P.O. Box 337, Amityville, NY 11701. Tel: 800-638-7819; Tel: 631-691-1270; Fax: 631-691-1770; e-Mail: Info@Baywood.com; Web Site: Http://Baywood.com, 30 Nov. 2008, eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ796386.
Fry, Richard. "A record one-in-five households now owe student loan debt." Religion 5 (2015): 
12.
“General Education.” 11 Oct. 2017, http://removed-this-url.com/.
Kim, Mikyong Minsun, and Jangwan Ko. “The Impacts of State Control Policies on College 
Tuition Increase.” Doi.org, Educational Policy, 20 Feb. 2014, doi.org/10.1177%2F0895904813518100.
Suldo, Shannon M., et al. "Sources of Stress for Students in High School College Preparatory 
and General Education Programs: Group Differences and Associations with Adjustment." 
Adolescence, vol. 44, no. 176, Winter 2009, pp. 925-948. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=47716078&site=ehost-live.
