Critical Commentary
The consumers market has been stable for much of the twentieth century and has changed with how society has progressed technologically. Social media has grown and accelerated the trend of the market astronomically. Social media plays a huge role in the market because people have reviews of every product known demand at their finger tips. Before social media, consumers would have to rely on advertisements like billboards, television commercials, and radio commercials to determine quality of a product. Some brands that were well known even before social media were things like General Motors Company(cars), Heinz(sauces), and Apple(technology). If any of these places created a product, then right off the bat these products had a great name to establish the products. The reviews that are now all over the internet originally started out as a group called consumer reports. The author is trying to say to survive in the industry today, you have to establish yourself first by making as many customers as happy as you possibly can to receive good reviews and promote your product. 
	The experience of a product determines what kind of review the company will receive. If someone goes into McDonalds and receives terrible customer service and bad food, this person will most likely not be returning to McDonalds. Although, if this same person goes to Chick-Fil-A, where they pride their selves on customer service and good food, and has a good experience he will most likely return. Even if the prices are a little bit higher than the competition, this person will most likely go to Chick-Fil-A over McDonalds any day. 
	The leggings discussed in this excerpt started out as a very hot trend in the yoga apparel. They started out as a very unknown company, but as a few people started to enjoy the product they received great reviews. These great reviews led to more sales and more happy customers. This company thrived up until a few customers discovered the leggings were transparent when you bent over. A company is known as their last product on the market, so if you would like to change the way people think about your company then you will have to make a stellar product to change their mind from the ugly picture you left from your last product. Some car companies like Hyundai went from being a joke in the care industry to selling millions of cars a year. They started out as a nobody but after pleasing customer after customer their business began to skyrocket into one of the most bought cars in the industry. They have to bust their tails every year to make sure their cars are still liked where Apple can make just about whatever they want and as long as it says Apple, the product will sell. 
	There are numerous sociological factors that are used in the market today. Generalization is the ability to draw conclusions from specific data to apply them to a broader population. Websites that do consumer reports are just a summary of all the reviews found on the internet and distributed to the public(population). A recent consumer report that I was able to use in my everyday life was one about Apple tech support. I spilled sweet tea on my computer and was kind of nervous about how good their tech center was, so I just googled a consumer report and found out that they were top of the technology world in support. Validity is the degree to which it accurately measured or reflects a concept. Validity and reliability could both fall under the same category, where reliability is the measurement of a repeating measure under the same circumstances giving the same result. Reliability would be where 100 people used apple tech support on liquid damage and 97 of them had a great experience. Then validity would be how I (someone who has not yet experienced the tech support) could apply my experience to the already established wonderful review. Another generalization was that Asics are great running shoes for people with high arcs. The reliability would come from 109 people giving one specific shoe a 4.5 star on runrepeat.com. The validity would come from the same website, that explains that they read reviews for 6.9 hours to give an accurate representation of what actual customers think of the product that they are trying to push. Reliability is determined by the consistent success of a company and validity is the continuous happiness of a customer. The reliability could also come from a site like runrepeat.com where they advertise that they read reviews for 6.9 hours to give the customer an accurate review.
	This article contains a large amount of sociological rules on how to build and obtain a good reputation in the market. I think the ones that stuck out the most were generalization and validity/reliability. Generalization is used throughout the entire article as it is just taking the experience (specific data) and drawing conclusions(reviews) and applying them to the broader population(public). They say that Apple is the world’s most cited brand, but to get this review they took everyone that has ever offered their opinion and conformed them all into a review to determine that the public really likes Apple products. Lululemon’s reliability went from really good to really bad after just a few people found out how cheaply and thin the leggings were made. Therefore, the validity from the original review would not be a very trusted source. As you can see in the article the reviews started out pretty great, “they’re more than apparel, they’re a lifestyle.”. Then as customers started complaining about pilling fabrics, bleeding dyes, and most memorably, yoga pants so thing that effectively became transparent when you bent over. Reviews can change at the blink of an eye of a company depending on how you treat you customers and staff. For Lululemon this was not a very good time as their founder suggests that some women were too fat to be wearing the leggings. No matter how bad or good your review is you never want to talk bad about the customer because that will cause an image in someone’s head and they will never return. Then again, “you’re only as good as your last product. For brands like Lululemon, there’s only one consolation: make something really great and your past sings will be forgotten.”. It will be forgotten by most but it will never be forgotten by all. Roku, a maker of streaming entertainment devices, has thrived even though its products have to compete with similar ones made by Apple. If a company is doing well when their competition is Apple, then 99% of the time this company will be very reliable. Apple is the best known company in technology, so if you can make a product that competes with them, your product’s reliability is valid.

