The Nursing-Patient Relationship Under The Microscope
The bond between nurse and patient, as well as the safety of the patient has been identified as the primary focus of health care since history can remember, from the Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD), psychiatric nurses, midwives, and many other nursing professions. It is obvious, traditionally nurse’s primary goals are to protect the rights of their patients and provide safe, adequate care. However, book-smart nursing patterns carry a lot of issues such as transferring literature over to realistic situations. In this case, textualized lecturing should not be the only way the paradigm is taught to in the making nurses. Authors like Hagerty and Patusky (2003) and the authors of the article, “Everyday ethics: ethical issues and stress in nursing practice” (2010) question the NPR and how it is develop in various situations; they both uncover the issues with long expectations based on the roles of participants in the NPR and the constant principle barriers nurses face in the early 2000’s. In addition, the two articles similarly point out that the issues in habitual nurse training could lead to low aimed care for the patient’s overall comfort (i.e physically. Mentally, emotionally, mobility, genuine form). This then leads into the interruption of the purpose of the NPR, it goals, and the overall comfort level of health practice in general. Nonetheless, these issues have been well looked upon by health professionals around the globe and are starting to be confronted with positive health outcomes. 
Hagerty and Patusky (2003) express how the nursing paradigm is in need of an update in order to keep up with modern health care expectations “Many assumptions inherent in inquiry and practice in the NPR, and contributing to its continued paradigm, have not been challenged or examined within the current context of health care and developments in nursing science and practice” (P. 1). Just as society continually changes, so does medical discovery, health care, and nursing practices. Furthermore supporting that nurse training should be done in multiple teaching approaches. Moreover, It is suggested by Hagerty and Patusky, “Despite advocacy of more empowering approaches to patients, Chant and colleagues (2002) noted conflict between “school” and “reality.” Hewison (1995) found the majority of nurse-patient interactions were superficial and were related to task accomplishment” Hence, what is read in books is not enough to prepare upcoming nurses for the high demands required to develop a therapeutic relationship in today’s health society. 
As I have said before established nursing patterns are continually showing NPR problems in the 2000’s in various situations. An example from Reuben and Tinetti (2012), “ [A] person with Parkinson’s disease may establish goals for symptoms, such as decreased rigidity and no falls; goals for functional status, such as the ability to get to the bathroom without assistance although requiring a walker; and goals for social function, such as the ability to use the Internet to communicate with a grandson at college and the ability to go to church” (P. 1-2). Evidently this example opens up unknown development areas of the NPR traditional teachings never seen before through goal-orientated care theorized by Reuben and Tinetti (2012). Now, this goal oriented way of providing care inflicts with the policies with protecting patient rights. For instance, helping a patient better learn how to operate a smartphone to gain the ability to keep in contact with their grandson can be seen as boundary-crossing (i.e performing an action inconsistent with the traditional nursing pattern) to reporters and other higher authority. Unfortunately, this creates many problems for the NPR to develop smoothly, and jeopardizes the overall comfort for the patient by causing nurse’s to portray themselves as the role of higher authority over the patient. 
Next, boundary crossing, as well as other ethical issues are found within the nursing profession causing nurses to back burn the NPR from prospering. In fact, 422 questionnaires were sent out to four different states in the U.S  in hopes to, “describe the type, frequency and level of stress of ethical issues encountered by nurses in their everyday practice” (Ulrich 3). The group of intellectual medical professionals found, “protecting patients’ rights (63.9%)” (P. 4) was the most common daily issue encountered. It begins to become apparent that some policies may need to be reconceptualized for a more beneficial overall alternative way of modern health care. In addition, nurses soon recognize the medical field’s high demand in the amount of time, dedication, and labor required. Nurses may not have understood the extent of the demand when learning in books and lecture; thereafter leading to nurses not wanting to participate in the profession any longer. In brief, no triumph over the other, both participants jointly and proactively implement the alternative approach of goal-oriented care and create a sense of mutuality by trying to accomplish a common goal and how it is to be accomplished generating positive health outcomes for both the patient and nurse. 
 Next, the realistic provided example from Reuben and Tinetti (2012)  assume long term of visits and possibly residency within a skilled nursing facility. Short term stays for acute care can create a blockade for the time needed in the development process of the NPR. However, goal-orientated health care theorized by Reuben and Tinetti allows nurses to develop a relationship with any patient no matter how long the stay, type of disease, or length of life expectancy. To illustrate, “goal-oriented care prompts patients to articulate which health states are important to them and their relative priority. Thus, patients can be in control when treatment options require trade-offs (e.g., better symptom control at the expense of potentially shorter life span)” (Reuben, Tinetti 2). In this case, the nurse and patient share a mutual goal, whether short term or long term, and put the overall comfort of the patient first versus the medication route of treatment.
A cause for these ethical and NPR barriers is due to the long established role expectancy of the NPR and the continued push onto prescribed medication as the most logical treatment plan. Treatment plans implemented by nurses are based off prescribed medication, relieving symptoms, conquering illness, and restoring patient’s health to as close to one-hundred percent as possible. Formerly, this approach is not wrong, but it should not be the only approach. Consequently, this practice of false dilemma by health providers suggest the goal is not the patient's needs, yet getting them to follow the most logical treatment plan to the health provider.  Whether it be socially, mobility, symptomatically, etc. the nurse is able to find common grounds to provide adequate care wanted by the patient when approaching with a goal-oriented attitude. Lastly, understanding that medication is not the only path of treatment then enables the NPR to soar no matter the situation. 
In addition, Hagerty and Patusky (2003) theorize a new access to the nurse-patient relationship (NPR) in ways traditional learning can not do through four concepts. “These include: sense of belonging, reciprocity, mutuality, and synchrony” (Hagerty, Patusky 4). These four factors allow nurses to prepare themselves for realistic situations that might present themselves in the NPR. These four factors can be summed up in two words “Human-Relatedness” (4). The authors provide a series of questions a nurse is able to ask themselves when evaluating the NPR being pursued; undeniably emphasizing the importance of critical thinking. Questions such as, “Am I anxious with this patient?” “Am I avoiding interaction?” “Is this patient anxious with me?” (5). These questions then allow the nurse to establish the relationship and figure out how to approach adequate care to improve overall comfort. Whereas, traditional nursing patterns suggest doing what it takes to get the job done without causing harm or violating any policies. Then, causing a great amount of stress for nurses, which may lead to nurses rethinking their dedication to the profession, which is undesired. 
To sum things up, established nursing care was enough for past patient care requirements, but with disease advancing, medical discovery, and various health situations traditional nursing care does not meet the standards of modern health care. It is among commonplace to distinguish the NPR as the primary framework of health care, and these updated approaches provided by health professionals to confront the overall comfort of the patient for the better need to be implemented in more health care facilities. “Ultimately, good medicine is about doing right for the patient. For patients with multiple chronic diseases, severe disability, or limited life expectancy, any accounting of how well we’re succeeding in providing care must above all consider patients’ preferred outcomes” (Reuben, Tinetti 3). Nurses and patients need to understand that there are multiple health outcomes, and nurses are able to accomplish these patient based health outcomes with a goal-orientated approach, all while providing overall exceptional comfort for the patient. Evidently, posing a victory in tackling the goals of the NPR. 
References
Ciccu-Moore, Rita, et al. “Care and Comfort Rounds: Improving Standards.” Nursing
    Management (2014 ), vol. 20, no. 9, 2014, p. 18.
Hagerty, Bonnie M., and Kathleen L. Patusky. “Reconceptualizing the Nurse‐Patient
Relationship.” Journal of Nursing Scholarship, vol. 35, no. 2, 2003, pp. 145–150.
Reuben, David B., and Mary E. Tinetti. “Goal-Oriented Patient Care — An Alternative Health
Outcomes Paradigm.” The New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 366, no. 9, 2012, pp.
777-779.
Ulrich, Connie M., et al. “Everyday Ethics: Ethical Issues and Stress in Nursing
Practice.” Journal of Advanced Nursing, vol. 66, no. 11, 2010, pp. 2510–2519.
