Essay #1 Revision
September 29, 2017
History 11 – Revision
	In seventeenth-century Virginia, there became a substantial growth in slavery which coincided with that of freedom. The connection between these two factors were noticeably significant and played vital roles during the era for this colony. As the Virginia Race Laws gradually took greater measures to separate the English and African Americans, slavery began to ascend into a role for the “superiors” to obtain works of labor by quintessential customs. 
Before the acknowledgement of slavery, there was indentured servitude which gave the white people who contained a scarce amount of money, a chance to acquire land and remain at ease after the completion of four to seven years of toil. Unfortunately, this contract was fallacious and set out be a scam where those who signed in agreeance would rarely receive the luxury to attain their portion of the arrangement. It was found that one in every 20 people actually collected their freedom after the proposed due time (Jones Lecture). 
Throughout this period, African slaves were slowly beginning to be imported. However, since the expenses of possessing a worker was exceedingly high, the populace of white workers remained steady. For this reason, the population of African Americans did not reach an overwhelming volume of quantity until the mid-seventeenth century. Although, during its rise, as there became a plethora of colored workers, the need for white hands diminished as they were permitted to cease their labors. With time, Virginia had become more and more racialized as a colony, leading to the idea of which black people were inferior to all of white color. The Act X of June 1680 law concluded the awareness that slave owners are allowed to partake in irrational forms of conduct towards their property if misbehaved (Virginia Race Laws). This included killing a slave with a gun, who resisted their owner’s obligations of them or decision to run away, stated in Act XVI (Virginia Race Laws). With these actions, commenced the initiation of the decease of humanity, for the morbidity of such acceptance to horrid actions became legal through the Declaration of Independence in 1776 (Textbook). 
African Americans began to forcibly adhere to those of the English, giving the right of freedom to the white people whom were in poverty. Once the transition of slave ownership became potent, the population of servitude doubled to those having proprietorship. From this uprising of negro slaves, white people were let of unrestricting ties of the wealthy, for they were no longer needed and given the opportunity of a second chance to a new way of life. For some locations, such as Jamaica, the amount of those in captivity over ruled, in an alarming amount, the unfettered residents (Jones Lecture). Statistics along the lines of 15,000 white people were known to live in that country in comparison to the 200 to 250,000 slaves who were serving them (Jones Lecture). This became a time where the English became slightly frightened with the knowledge that their dominance would not be as strong; for the slaves were taking over the land the whites owned.
Along with the regulations of bondage, slave ownership also came with the opportunity to brutally torment their property as close or exactly to the point of murder (Virginia Race Laws). From this knowledge and disagreement of the rules, African Americans were perpetually in resistance. By this disobedience, the act to maintain a slave corresponded to believing that they were incapable of being treated as normal human beings, which correlated into another purpose for the growth of slavery. Slaves would begin utilizing a multitude of methods, all in which represented their anger and/or determination to escape. Some forms included a nonviolent action by way of destruction of property with the burning of crops, for the slaves would no longer need to attend to them. Another approach, which occurred most frequently, was to simply run away from their superiors with little amount of baggage for their travels. The last tactic of hostility resulted in rebellion that was typically introduced when the English became distracted with the political field long enough to preoccupy their minds from focusing on their slaves (Jones Lecture). Since these demeanors never occurred through those of white color, the English presumed the motion in which they should not be held in captivity and forced to do labor because their behavior did not need to be tranquilized.  
From the growth of maintaining African slaves in replacement of indentured servitude, served to prolong an acceptance of mistreatment and abusive customs throughout the spell of the seventeenth century. The traditions and forms of life children had grown to deem as acceptable when turning to adulthood brought great delay to what could have been a shorter extension of misguided teachings. All the punishments that came in correspondence to slavery had been recognized as wrong doings by a many of people as well. Though because the severity of consequences for helping a slave was at great peril, the risk of white people losing their own freedom during this treacherous time was not a possible topic to strike against. Since the relationship of white people’s freedom interlaced too intensely with that of slavery, there was no support let to be handed or achieved.
