Ed Sheeran Rhetorical Analysis

 	Ed Sheeran released his newest album Divide after taking a year long hiatus. He spent that time away from social media and focused on himself (Nelson). In the album Sheeran has a variety of songs ranging from hip-hop, to Irish folk, to romantic ballads. Almost all of the songs in the album are non-fiction, giving the listeners a sense of connection to the music and the artist himself. His song “Castle on the Hill” is about happy and sad memories as a child growing up in Suffolk, Framlingham and how he made the best out of bad experiences (Noble). This song is full of happy and bad memories.
    	The song “Castle on the Hill” is a pop song about thinking back on the good times of your childhood. The setting is Suffolk Framlingham, where Sheeran grew up. The listener knows he is singing about his hometown because of the lyrics “I was younger then, take me back to when…” and “But I can’t wait to go home”. If you are a fan of Ed, you would most likely know he is from England. The song is called “Castle on the Hill” because in Suffolk is the Framlingham Castle; where Sheeran narrates his childhood memories at a real location. The entire song is written in first person, showing that Sheeran is the narrator.
    The song is full of imagery, really making the listeners feel what he did. The first verse is “When I was six years old I broke my leg, I was running…And tasted the sweet perfume of the mountain grass I rolled down”. These lyrics allow you to imagine what is going on, you can see a little boy getting chased and face planting into the grass, breaking his leg. This imagery arouses the sense of taste as well, you can almost taste the perfume of grass in your mouth. Another verse is “Fifteen years old and smoking hand-rolled cigarettes”. This evokes the sense of sight and smell; you can imagine a group of teenagers smoking poorly rolled cigarettes, and you can smell the tobacco in the air. The imagery gives the listener a connection to the song, making them feel like they are actually experiencing it.
  	  Throughout the entire song, there is a sense of nostalgia. Castle on the Hill is about his childhood memories, both the good and bad. Sheeran uses age a few times in the song. The first line of the song is “When I was six years old..” as well as “Fifteen years old…”. This helps the listener know that he is indeed looking back at his childhood memories. These memories he is singing about must have some meaning to him, they must be important if he is mentioning them. The song has good memories, like having his first kiss, having a job, and drinking with his friends. There are also bad memories, like breaking his leg, running from police, and going through a heart break. He made the best out of the good and bad experiences, shaping him into the person he is today. Ed Sheeran misses the way things were back then, the song states “I was younger then, take me back to when” and “But I can’t wait to go home”. In the song, he mentions driving through country roads and listening to “Tiny Dancer”. This song is slow and peaceful, which can evoke nostalgia.
    The song also mentions his friends and what they are doing now that they are grown up. “One had two kids but lives alone…One’s brother overdosed…But these people raised me and I can’t wait to go home”. This verse shows that everyone has matured from the children they used to be, and how they have all gone separate ways. Some of them have had good lives, while others have not. These friends grew up with Sheeran; and even though they aren’t together anymore, they are a family and he wants to return home and be with them. Friendship can be powerful as they can shape each other and learn from one another.
   	 “Castle on the Hill” is about the memories Sheeran had as child growing up in Suffolk, Framlingham, and making the best out of good and bad experiences. Nostalgia is a bittersweet feeling when you really miss the way things used to be compared to when you were younger and things did not matter as much as they do now.















Works Cited
Nelson, Jeff. Ed Sheeran Explains His Year-Long Break from Social Media: I ‘Just Found Some Normality’. People Music, 17 Mar. 2017, http://people.com/music/ed-sheeran-explains-year-off-found-some-normality/. Accessed 6 Sep. 2017.
Noble, Jason. Location-manager for Ed Sheeran’s Castle on the Hill video reveals why Suffolk filming can thrive. East Anglian Daily Times, 29 Apr. 2017, http://www.eadt.co.uk/news/location-manager-for-ed-sheeran-s-castle-on-the-hill-video-reveals-why-suffolk-filming-can-thrive-1-4996566. Accessed 6 Sep. 2017.
