You’ll never believe this new law affecting Pennsylvania college students!!







Pennsylvania state universities will no longer be accepting students who have tattoos

	In the state of Pennsylvania, there is a system of higher education in which certain universities receive government funding in order to keep the establishment running. Some of the well-known universities that fall under this category according to Niche College Rankings are West Chester University, Slippery Rock University, Millersville University, and Bloomsburg University. Also in the state of Pennsylvania, there are state affiliate schools which receive partial funding from the government but not full. These universities are Penn State University, Temple University, and University of Pittsburgh.
Starting in August of 2018, the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education will no longer be allowing state funded universities to accept incoming students who have tattoos. The board members of this system came to the decision during the last meeting of 2017 and say the new policy will be implemented for the start of the 2018 fall semesters across the 14 state funded universities. 
According to board member and academic student affairs chair Casey Smith, “The image of visible tattoos is one that ruins the professional atmosphere that the system of high education is striving to achieve.” Smith also claims that the appearance of visible tattoos is in violation with the mission statement of the system since it interferes with the learning processes of the other students. Current chancellor of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education, Riley Johnson, has refused to share his thoughts on the situation. However, it has been released that Johnson's vote was the deciding vote in the final decision-making process. 






We interviewed some students and asked their opinions on this new policy being launched. Starting quarterback from West Chester University, Jaime Miller claims that he has no direct opinions on the matter because he will be graduating in the spring and it does not directly affect him. Contradicting himself, he feels that this decision was made unreasonably, and it should be reconsidered. Miller said, “We are living in a world that continues to progress every day. I don’t know why we are banning students with tattoos when society is trying to make them socially acceptable. I just don’t understand what they are trying to teach us.” 
President of the Student Government Association at Bloomsburg University, Kerry Jones has opposing opinions. Jones states that he agrees with this new policy and thinks that the goal in question is appropriate. “Being in student government, I always have to carry myself in a professional manner. I can’t imagine what kind of impression on people I would be making if I walked into a convention with a full sleeve of tattoos on my arm. It would be unprofessional, and it is not acceptable in the work place for my profession or any one else.” 
Chairperson Skyler Williams explained that there will be no actions taken against currently enrolled students who have tattoos. However, if any new accepted students go and get tattoos after this policy is put into place they are to have any scholarships and financial aid given by Pennsylvania state universities revoked as punishment. The board is trying to make it known that this new policy is serious and therefore must have serious punishments to make their point known to the public and anyone who tries to challenge it. 
No information has been released regarding transfer students from a nonstate funded university to a state funded university and if the policy applies to them; along with students who have already been accepted to state universities for the fall 2018 semester before this policy was made official. Likewise, there has also been no information released pertaining to students who have been accepted into the summer 2018 semester along with early admissions students since the policy was written to take place at the start of the fall semester in 2018.
The Pennsylvania State System of Education strongly believes in providing the students with valuable information along with an education that will prepare them for the real world and the workforce that these young adults are about to enter. The system does not want to be in support of a nonprofessional image that is connected with tattoos whether they are visibly on the body or not. The hope is that after implementing this new policy to the universities, the hiring rate out of college will increase as well as increase the ratings of the universities that are a part of this system. 









The targeted audience for this article was prospective college students, specifically ones that are looking to attend a Pennsylvania state funded university. Many students pick the college that they are going to attend based off of what the hiring rate is in their particular program. Most people’s fear when they graduate college is the fear of not being hired. Students want to do anything in their power to secure a job, so the fact that having a tattoo might jeopardize their chances by not even allowing them into college is going to frighten many people.
 The story is not to raise awareness against tattoos but to show how job-focused our society is and how one small thing like a tattoo can prevent someone from securing a job. The goal of this story was to first incite emotion from the reader. People should feel anger about this topic. How can someone refuse a college acceptance based on something that isn’t related to academics. After the anger is felt, people should take action. Things don’t get done by sitting around and being upset. Write letters to boards of people who make decisions. Vote for people who can use their voice in support of your opinions. If you want something to change, you have to be proactive in trying to make that change. 
This story is going to be found on Buzzfeed.com along with the featured Buzzfeed page on Snapchat. This story is going to be easily acceptable to teenagers or anyone else who is constantly on social media. Buzzfeed is known to be one of the most frequently visited social media sights for teens and young adults, who also tend to believe most of the fake news stories that are circulating the internet every single day. Not only will this story be on the Buzzfeed website but links to it will be found on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram as the social media person from Buzzfeed will share a link for easy access and sharing of the readers.
