When school started in August, I walked into my first day of classes dreading having to take a writing class. I had just spent the last 12 years in school learning how to write and I considered myself to be a decent writer, I even passed my writing SAT’s. But it wasn’t until I took Foundations of College Writing with Dr. Casey Smith that I learned I was a subpar writer at best. To be a writer, one needs to know more than just the five-paragraph essay format that has been burned into every high school student’s brain across the country. I had only ever written three full length papers before I came to college, and after completing this course I have learned two very important things. One being that I have learned how to write a paper under numerous different circumstances; the second being that I still need more practice on writing papers. This course has provided me with so much information and knowledge not only about how to write a paper for a grade, but how to get through the rest of my college career. 
	Foundations of College Writing came equipped with four different goals to be accomplished over the course of the semester. The first of these goals is that by the end of the course, students will be able to write a variety of styles of papers and be able to adapt their writing to appeal to a particular audience.  Through this course, I have written both formal and informal papers. At the beginning of the school year, I had to construct an informal paper explaining to Dr. Smith how I plan to be successful throughout both her specific course along with the rest of my college career. The paper was in the format of a letter, and was written with a friendly, informal tone. The closing statement in the letter reads, “I understand that I need to not give up and I may have to do things that may not be normal to me, but that Is how life works out. I am determined to stay in the honors program and become a better student because of your class and knowledge” (Success Reflection 3). Acknowledging what is required of me throughout college is typically not a formal topic and typically neither is writing a letter. 
Opposingly, I have had to compose very formal writings throughout this course. One example would be the argumentative paper. This paper not only had a formal tone to it, but it also taught me about audience and how to appeal to a certain audience the proper way. The paper had many facts in it, making it full of ethos, and provided a formal tone. The paper also had to include a counterstatement that then was refuted. In my paper relating to the controversial issue of mothers breastfeeding in public, it reads, “Many people believe that since breastmilk is a bodily fluid it therefore can spread infectious diseases to the public… breastmilk is not considered to be a bodily fluid” (Argumentative Essay 3). The paragraph continues to mention that even though breastmilk is not a bodily fluid, the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention recognizes the possibility of spreading infectious diseases; even though the likelihood of that happening is extremely low. This essay taught me how to look at things from other people’s prospective, and therefore how to write to appeal to the audience that disagreed with my thesis in the paper. 
The second goal in this writing course is that students should have the ability to “read, interpret, select, and use evidence critically to formulate and support arguments” (Course Syllabus 1). Throughout the semester, Salon Fridays have been an event that I continually looked forward to. Salon was a time where the students were granted the opportunity to write about and then discuss different issues in today’s world and society. Salon not only required a large amount of critical thinking, but it also required me to read up on certain topics which allowed me to learn more information. This information was then turned into a supported opinion that could be shared with the class. Topics discussed at salons ranged from social class, to legalization of marijuana, to fake news in the media. The students were read a list of guidelines at the start of each salon which when summarized, listed that we had a right to speak or not to speak on a topic, we are to respect the people speaking and what they are saying, and that our opinions are never going to be reflected by our grades.  
Due to the amount of research required throughout the course, our class took several trips to the library. In the library, we learned several helpful tips including how to use our university’s databases, along with how to identify if a story found on the internet is truthful or fake.  The research librarian that we were working with always provided the class with a surplus of information to help us with whatever we needed. The library databases that we used are full of information, one person would never be able to sift through all of it in attempt to find what they are looking for. The librarian taught us how to use different search techniques to narrow down the results of our searches. Learning how to properly research and finding valuable information helped improve my writing abilities along with helping to make my factual arguments throughout my papers stronger.
The third goal of the course is the ability to write in several different medias; meaning being able to get a point across in more ways than just typing an essay on Word Processor. An obvious example of this goal at work is the final ePortfolio project required for this class. An ePortfolio is a way to present a student’s work electronically, and considering how our lives are becoming more and more technology based every day, learning how to create an ePortfolio is a valuable skill to have. Not only does the writing have to be well thought-out and correct, but the visual aspects have to be correct as well. The colors and fonts have to work together to make it visually pleasing along with making it appear clean and professional. 
A more specific example of composing in different media is the visual memoir assignment. The goal was to explain a specific trait or characteristic about ourselves in five slides or less. However, the catch was there could be more than five words in the entire presentation, excluding our name, title, and works cited page. This assignment made me think out of the box. I had to find a way to tell a mini story about me and my life with only using five words. The category that I chose to depict in my visual memoir was that I am a dancer, and dancing has been a part of my life for as long as I can remember. One slide of the presentation showed a picture of my ankle after I returned home from the hospital (Visual Essay 4). When I was a sophomore in high school, I landed a jump wrong and I tore a ligament in my ankle. It was supposed to take six months to heal properly, but I never took the time off that I was supposed to. I couldn’t go that long without dancing. This assignment taught me that the old saying, “a picture is worth a thousand words” is true, and sometimes pictures can be more powerful than words could ever be. 
The last of the course goals relates to the writing process. The goal reads, “Students will be able to describe and apply appropriate writing processes, both individual and collaborative” (Course Syllabus 1). The hardest part of the writing process, in my opinion, is editing and making the finishing touches perfect. For every writing assignment in this class, peer workshops were held. Groups of three or four people were formed, and our papers were read aloud to the group. After the paper was read, a silent individual reading was done, followed by edits made by our peers. The edits and revisions were handed back to the author of the paper and then used to help perfect the paper. Peer workshops were not only helpful for the editing stage of the writing process, but it was also helpful when someone was stuck in their writing. When a certain paragraph wasn’t fitting into the rest of the paper or a few sentences didn’t make sense the way they were worded, our peers were there to help bounce ideas off of and help make our papers the best that they could be. 
 One thing that this class taught me about the writing process, is that the writing process is never completely finished. After our paper was turned into Dr. Smith and she graded it, it was handed back to use with tons of corrections and feedback written directly onto the paper. These corrections were always helpful and sometimes insightful, they always made us think more about the assignment. After the paper was graded and handed back, the opportunity to have a conference with Dr. Smith about a rewrite was brought up. The conference was directed towards how the paper can be improved and what steps need to be taken to get there. After a paper was rewritten and turned in again for a new grade, it was returned to the writer with new notes and comments on it from Dr. Smith proving that this cycle may never end. 
Along with the four course goals, there are two goals that the honors program wanted to accomplish over the course of the semester. The first goal is that students will be able to display proper critical thinking through their assignments. One example of this was the personal memoir assignment. The assignment was to write a story about your life, but we were required to think critically and examine different aspects of our life and how it helped build and shape us into the people that we are today. My essay explained that I am aware that I am a part of an upper-middle class family which has provided me with many opportunities, one of them being able to attend a four- year university. Because of my college education, I will be a candidate for a future job teaching high school biology; and because of my future job, I will be able to help blur the gender roles in the work force. Traditionally females are teachers and males do science-based jobs, but my job will merge the roles into one position (Memoir Essay 3). 
Another example of using critical thinking can be found in the fake news assignment. The goal was to write a nontruthful story in a way so that people would not be able to tell that it is fake. One way to do that is to find partial truths to add into the story to make it seem more believable. The title of my story is “Pennsylvania State Universities Will No Longer Be Accepting Students Who Have Tattoos”. The story is full of quotes from actual people, but they obviously did not say any of the things that they are quoted on. For example, the story reads, “According to board member and academic student affairs chair Jonathan B. Mack, ‘The image of visible tattoos is one that ruins the professional atmosphere that the system of higher education is striving to achieve’” (Fake News 2). Jonathan B. Mack is a real board member of the Pennsylvania System of Higher Education, but he obviously has no idea who I am and never made any comments on this topic. The use of partial truth helped make the story believable and required effortful critical thinking to get to that point. 
The second goal of the honors program reads, “Students will be able to articulate insights into their own cultural, social, and political position in relation to regional, national, and international identities” (Course Syllabus 1). One example of this goal in action is during our Friday salons during class. While we are discussing topics, each person in the class is sharing their opinions that come from different political and social affiliations. The first salon of the semester had a question relating to the fate of our country. Some people may feel total fear for the country regarding the current president while other people may feel total safety and security. Being able to discuss controversial and relevant topics in class gives students an opportunity to formulate opinions that are solely their own. Perhaps for the first time in these students lives, they are granted the chance to speak about politics without their parents forcing them to have similar beliefs. 
A second example of discovering students’ political and social identities can be found in the argumentative essay. Depending on the topic that was being debated in the paper, it can be representative of the person’s political and social feelings. In my example of breastfeeding in public, it is evident that I am a feminist who is trying to fight for equality and acceptance. The essay reads, “The United State of America was founded on the belief of equality for all, but yet in 2017 there is still discrimination and inequality in our every day lives. Every human being born came from a mother, and the majority of these mothers breastfed their children… In the world that we live in today, we need to realize that the female breast is not a sexualized object and therefore breastfeeding in public is not an issue that needs to be discussed” (Argumentative Essay 4). This quote clearly states what my position is on the issue and also clearly states some political feelings that I have. 
After fifteen weeks of work in the class, I have learned more information than I thought to be humanly possible. This class taught me more than just how to formulate a paper following a certain guideline and a set of specific steps. This class has taught me how to use my critical thinking abilities to improve more than just my writing. I have been taught how to debate controversial topics in a manner that is respectful and effective. I have been taught the beauty of salon and how much fun it can be to hear the thoughts and opinions of my classmates when it comes to current issues in our everyday lives. Foundations of College Writing has not only provided me with the background that I am going to need to rest of my college writing career, but it also provided me with the background that I am going to need to survive the next four years of my life as I strive to remain in the honors program and earn my degree. 



