The Large Inequality Gap
Because of the large inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor, the poor most likely will never be able to realize their so-called American dream for wealth regardless of how hard they try. Economic inequality refers to income inequality, wealth inequality or the wealth gap. Some Americans don’t see these inequalities. The large inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor is very crucial because the smaller group has more control of power and wealth. Even though poor should realize they can change and not be lazy about their lifestyle, the poor will never be able to realize their so-called American dream for wealth regardless of how hard they try given that the poor American society is brainwashed, and one percent has more control of power and wealth.
Being wealthy and having control is not something everyone has and those who don’t are put in a sense where they think the people who do have this it is ok for them to boast about it and not give back to their community. Because they see this small group who has more control, they provide better things for them and the bigger percent of Americans don’t see this. For example, in “Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American dream – Why Poverty?”, Alex Gibney outlines the story about residents of New York’s 740 Park Avenue, that provides living quarters for the country’s richest people. Every American is equal, or should I say should be equal. If an American who makes only $40,000 a year wanted to stay there, they couldn’t because it is only designated for a certain group of people. Just because you make more then the other person doesn’t make you better but that is what society wants everyone to think. That if you are wealthy you get treated better than the next American.
Poor Americans should realize they can change the way they live if they work hard enough to achieve being wealthy. They are brainwashed into thinking that receiving government benefits is ok. McMillan writes an article about what poverty really is and how she was brainwashed about what and who government benefits were really for. McMillan states, ““But when I considered SNAP for myself, I felt keenly that it was not for “people like me.” The unspoken corollary was that poverty was normal for everyone else.”  White American, McMillan who thought whites were not supposed to have food stamps because most Americans that were wealthy were white (they also show this in Park Avenue). Because Americans thought that poverty is NORMAL, they are brainwashed into thinking food stamps and other government benefits are normal. It is hard for them to think different because of the large income gap between the wealthy and the poor.
The American people are very affected by the wealth gap, which has to do with many factors and not just because of income. This is what Lisa Fu, the author of “The Wealth Gap in the U.S. Is Worse Than in Russia or Iran”. Americans solely think that this inequality gap is because of how much we make a day but because of where a person live and slightly because of social class. Lisa Fu states, “Our country isn’t just divided by politics or class, it’s divided by where you live.” The wealthy and the well educated have walled themselves in separate neighborhoods. Also, urbanization is the cause of it too, where they are pushing the poor Americans out by raising the prices of housing.
Even though certain Americans are brainwashed, and the inequality gap is crucial, they should be able to realize how they could change and try to make things better or do something about it. Some Americans should not be lazy and think that government assistance is the best route for them. There is a big gap because a lot of people do not want to take initiative to change. For example, a lot of people move into cities and create cluster. Which will result in less jobs and more money the cities or states must dish out; that makes the pricing of things rise and people who do not make that much not afford it. If us as Americans spreaded out throughout the country, the inequality gap wouldn’t be that bad.
On the other hand, “Under Donald Trump’s tax plan, the rich would get richer and the poor poorer”. The point of view makes sense because some people say the poor live in poverty because they must. However, some Americans do not know this, so they still are brainwashed. Thinking they can not do anything to get a better job to improve the place they live and what class they are included in.
In conclusion Americans realizing the inequality gap between the wealthy and the poor will give them more control over how they want to live. They will never be able to realize this because they are not equip enough to understand that they are living in a world where the 1 percent of wealthy people will always have the upper hand.