Motor Vehicle Theft: An Invisible Crime That Can’t Be Supressed
The threat of burglary is something that can seem inescapable. Naturally, this includes the college campus environment. The crime that happens on these campuses makes some question whether the security is adequate to prevent them from happening. They say that the security measure that has been put in place is not enough to make the students feel safe. However, the other side suggests the complete opposite. They feel that the security can sometimes feel too high and that their privacy and to some extent their safety could be in jeopardy citing events like campus police brutality. According to the official crime reports at University, however, it is clear that the security on campus is not up to the standards. Specifically when it comes to vehicle theft, as it has been shown to have an increase since 2014. Therefore, University needs to increase the security on campus through department cooperation as well as coherent communication between the faculty. This will not only cost less than other conventional methods but it will also ensure that the students on campus, and their belongings, are safer.    
Our group conducted a survey on a University related page called “University Book, Trades and Advice” to see what other students thought about the safety of their vehicles. After the most recent review of responses which was sixty student responses, it has come to a conclusion that students do not feel safe from motor vehicle theft. 72% of our recipients responded that they are more worried about their vehicles going to downtown Anytown and the following location where they are most precautious of their vehicles are on campus grounds. 63.3% of the recipients answered that they did not feel that their vehicles were safe on campus. This shows that even with campus police and traffic patrols, they do not feel fully safe from auto theft. In fact, 76.7% of our recipients have experienced some sort of auto theft and the majority of the victim's vehicles personal belongings or the vehicle itself was never recovered. Another finding from the survey revealed the most stolen vehicles; Hondas and Toyotas were the leading brand cars that were stolen from the recipients of the survey. From these vehicles that were stolen, 36% of them were from model years 2000-2005 and the second highest vehicle models were stolen were 1991-1999 models. This data shows what kind of vehicles are most targeted by auto thieves and can be used as a precautious for those who own those vehicle types.
Motor vehicle theft crime is one of the highest committed property crimes in the U.S. Here in Anytown, it has also been a slowly increasing crime. According to the FBI’s Uniformed Crime Reporting Data, in the city of Anytown, there has been an increase in motor vehicle theft crimes. In the most recent data collection from 2016, there was 3,284 motor vehicle theft crimes reported by Anytown's police department. In the previous year in 2015,  there were 2,993. Specifically, in University, there were 30 reported vehicle thefts recorded by the police department in 2016 compared to fifteen motor vehicle theft crimes in 2015 according to the FBI’s Uniformed Crime Reporting (UCR). That may not seem like an outstanding number of motor vehicle thefts on campus grounds, but in reality, it is when we have a campus police and traffic operation officers that patrol the campus areas. Twenty MVT’s is about one to two incidents per month. This is a serious problem for the city of Anytown and University that cannot be undealt with. The reason for this crime increase is unknown, but there are several indications as to why motor vehicle theft criminals do what they do and how it is so easy for them to accomplish their criminal acts successfully.
According to the article “The Key to Auto Theft: Emerging Methods of Auto Theft from the Offender's’ Perspective” by Michael Charbonneau from the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and Heith Copes from the Department of Justice Sciences at the University of Alabama conducted a study to find out the motives for motor vehicle theft from the offenders’ themselves. They conducted an interview process with forty-two auto thieves from Tennessee under parole and 12 auto thieves that are incarcerated at prisons in Louisiana. Their process was to pay the offenders $10 to $20 dollars per confession on how they successfully committed an auto vehicle theft (919). The goal of this interview study was to find out which vehicles were in most danger from getting stolen and find out how the offenders committed their crimes with enough stealth to get away with it. The researchers wanted to find a way to show the thieves’ point of view to the audience to serve as a precaution to avoid being victims of this crime.
Copes and Cherbonneau found that auto thieves don’t commit their crime on any vehicle. Since it is getting harder for vehicles to be stolen because of improved security and ignition system in vehicles, offenders need to improvise and find other ways to commit the crimes. According to Copes and Cherbonneau, the main motive for auto thieves to steal vehicles is to joyride (920). The auto thieves don’t make auto theft an objective for the day; it’s more of an ‘I like it, I’ll take it’ mentality for these offenders. One offender described how he got motivated to steal a vehicle and he stated “I went off in this neighborhood by General Hospital. They had this convertible Benz, it was parked up under the garage, you know. And I kind of found it funny. The top down in the garage with the door open. So I waited for a little while and I ain’t seen nobody come out. So I went in and the keys were just sitting right there. I was like damn. So I cranked it up and I pulled out.” (920). These clear and easy types of opportunities motivate criminals to steal vehicles because of the easy access to the vehicle. 
The authors also found that the thieves used master keys and close-cousin keys to open vehicles. These keys are best suitable for older vehicles with terrible ignition switches such as Toyotas and Hondas (Copes+Cherbonneau 927). Newer vehicles are usually protected from these types of keys, but for owners of older vehicles, the luck goes downhill. Copes and Cherbonneau found that thieves use these keys to steal vehicles in a matter of seconds and they usually get the keys from dealerships that give master keys to open vehicles that are locked and the offenders make copies of it to sell to others who desire to steal a vehicle (927). Master keys work best on vehicles that have worn discs in the ignitions which are usually vehicles from Japan like Hondas and Toyotas. Owners with older models of these vehicles are more prone to their vehicles stolen so they have to be extra cautious with what they leave in the vehicle. According to the authors, master keys have become illegal to use in the U.S. and have been classified as a burglary tool so now anyone with a master key can face consequences with law enforcement (Copes+Cherbonneau 928). Even with all improvement in newer vehicles, auto thieves will always adapt to the changes and find a way to commit their crimes.
A lot of the criminal activity on college campuses can be traced back to the quality of the security that is present. For the most part, securities such as the on-campus police are lacking in their ability to effectively stop crimes on campus. For campus officers, in particular, the problem is largely due to the preconception of them not being ‘real police officers’ that the students and other constituencies tend to have. Ryan Patten examines this problem in his study, “The continued marginalization of campus police”. In this study, he references the history of campus police and how they were first integrated on campus by Yale University but since have never been placed on the same level that city officers do. Patten states that “students expect the campus police to keep them safe from crime, but, also that students did not identify the campus officers as ‘real police’ which has consequently led to the campus officers to not hold themselves to the same authority either. In fact, Patten refers to a study which found that a quarter of the campus police did not consider themselves as real officers( Patten et al. 5). The obvious problem with this is that if students and even the officers themselves feel that they aren’t up to the same standards of city officers, then people who are willing to commit theft or other crimes will be more likely to do so. This is due to the fact that some students will think they can get away with it because the campus police won’t be able to stop them. If the perception of the on-campus police changes to one or more respect, then that will do a lot to decrease the theft on campus.
  	  Just like there is a community of college students struggling to pass classes, there is also a particular community that is dedicated to car theft and burglary. The people from have studied and learned the differences between the environments, and the amount of law enforcement they have. With this information, they find which places, or environments, are best suited for the theft. Luckily, there are researchers dedicated to finding this information and alert the audience what do in order to avoid being a victim of a theft.
  	  One of these researchers conducted by Chun-Hao, Josann Duane, and Fabian Hadipriono and publish an article called “Performance of Campus Parking Garages in Preventing Crime”. Their research is about the analyzation of different factors within Ohio State University campus parking garages, such as lighting, visibility, and more, and how well they deter the thefts. Through these findings, they will be able to see what are the areas are the most efficient, and should be improved upon. They conducted this study because “about one-third of all motor vehicle thefts occur in driveways and lots surrounding homes and apartment buildings. Another third occurs in public parking lots and garages” (Tseng et al). The article then states that surveillance, access control, and a sense of territoriality are principle factors as well ass better illumination to best deter crime.
Although they are different in physical appearance, parking lots and parking garages have many similarities as in the criminal environment that they both produce.These similarities are displayed especially at night when parking lots and garages have low visibility, thus making it a thieve's playground. Another similarity is the amount of access a criminal can have to enter the parking lots or garages. If there are many, easy methods to enter a parking garage, then there will be more crime. Now, parking lots similar because, even though they are not a building, they can be fenced and gated. Therefore, it is good to know the parking spot you are in.
Another article focuses on parks, and their relationship to crime, specifically related to vehicles. Researchers Sean E. Michael, R. Bruce Hull, and  Diane L. Zahm investigated “the ways in which offenders use park settings to commit” (Michael et al) crimes in their article “Environmental Factors Influencing Auto Burglary”. They did a phone survey to law enforcement personnel and park managers from different large cities. They asked the people to demonstrate the risky spots in the park and why were the spots risky. They found out that the spots with the most risk were the ones with the most concealment. Parks and parking lots have some similarities, more specifically when it comes to the openness of the environment and how there is low concealment. Even though this would look like more than a good reason to not commit the crime, many car thieves still continue their crimes. They learn to choose vehicles that are more secluded from the rest, and out of the line of sight from the owners, and other people. 
The amount of car thefts at University has not diminished as demonstrated in the “2017 Annual Security Report”.  Since 2014, the number of motor vehicle thefts has increased from six to twenty-eight in 2016. This is an impressing increase knowing that we have many traffic patrols on duty. With more patrolling, there shouldn’t be an increase in auto theft crimes. These numbers are only going to increase unless we do something about it. 
Aside from this, there are other ways to increase security. For example, you could have the different departments of the school work together to discourage certain crimes. One instance of this was discussed in Halley Sutton’s article on campus security titled, “Tailor your campus security efforts to reflect your campus environment”. In the article, she cites the events that occurred at Humboldt State University in which the campus security worked with the housing department to discourage the use of drugs on campus. They did this by putting their housing contract in jeopardy if they were to go against their drug restrictions, which resulted in a decrease in drug use on campus. Additionally, they also sent the offending students to consultation with the vice principal and reported that there were very little repeat offenders because “The one-on-one consultation with the vice president helped students understand the consequences of their actions.”(Sutton 1). If these methods worked in this instance then by similar reasoning they would also work to prevent vehicle theft overall. Moreso since the universities could get away with harsher punishments due to car theft being an arguably worse offense than that of drug abuse. The benefit to these types of security improvement is that they won’t cost marginally more for the school, but will produce results that are on par with the other expensive methods such as hiring more security staff or investing in better security technology.
Many college students assume that if the college campus was to increase their security there will be less crime. According to the scholarly article, “An Economic Analysis of Campus Crime and Policing in the United States: An Instrumental Variable Approach”, by Joseph T. Crouse, certain colleges in the United States do and do not benefit from the increase of security on a college campus. In Crouse’s research, it was found that colleges from the West and South of the United States are increasing their security, but their crime rates are still the same, while in the Northeast and Midwest increasing their college security and their crime rates drop. Crouse states that, “This carries the policy implication that campuses in the Northeast and Midwest may be best to increase their campus police force since the responsiveness is elastic, whereas, the South and Midwest may be best to invest in other forms of crime deterrence such as Campus Escort services and crime prevention awareness programs” (70). Crouse points out that college campus in the South and West should just invest in crime deterrence, instead of just increasing the security because of the environment in those part of the United States. Crouse agrees, “McPheters found that campuses with higher levels of security expenditures tended to have higher rates of crime” (52). Crouse specifies that according to Mcpheter research he found that when increasing the security campus budget, it was more likely that those places will have more crime. Increasing security campus is a great idea, but it will not benefit all the college campuses, especially University. However the increase of security in college campus can raise the school tuition, but it would cost more to lose a vehicle or even worse personal information on devices.
    Increasing security is the best way to counter car theft and other sources of crime. If we were to address this issue, money would play a huge role. Crouse agrees, “We can reduce the profitability of crime by increasing the probability of being caught or by increasing the punishment” (55-56). This indicates that instead of wasting more money on crime, we can increase the punishment of crime because crime rates are still going up when campus increase security. Crouse states, “ Costs associated with criminal activity include the material costs, psychic costs, expected punishment costs, and opportunity costs associated with the decision to engage in criminal activity” (56).  Crouse indicates that the cost of having security will cause more resources to be used. Even though increasing the security will cost more, but it better to be safe than sorry. 
   	 Motor vehicle theft is something that cannot be prevented in every instance, but there can be precautions taken so that the likeliness of the occurrence is reduced. If the University campus was made safer by the methods mentioned then the students that could potentially be victims would be protected from having to buy a new car on top of their already expensive tuition. Not only that but the reputation of the campus would increase as well. These benefits extend beyond University and its students, however, they also benefit the city in that a more attractive campus will bring people that are less likely to commit a crime to live around the campus and allow the surrounding area of University to also become safer. It’s a problem whose solutions positively affects multiple communities. Something that cannot be looked over.



Work Cited

Copes, Heith and Michael Cherbonneau. "THE KEY to AUTO THEFT: Emerging Methods of 
Auto Theft from the Offenders' Perspective." British Journal of Criminology, vol. 46, no. 5, Sept. 2006, pp. 917-934. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1093/bjc/az1001
Crouse, Joseph. “AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF CAMPUS CRIME AND POLICING IN THE UNITED STATES: AN INSTRUMENTAL VARIABLES APPROACH.” European Scientific Journal, vol. 10, no. 28, 2014, pp. European Scientific Journal, Oct 2014, Vol.10(28).
Michael, Sean E, et al. “Environmental Factors Influencing Auto Burglary.” Environment and Behavior, vol. 33, no. 3, 2001, pp. 368–388
Sutton, Halley. "Tailor Your Campus Security Efforts to Reflect Your Campus Environment." 
Campus Security Report, vol. 13, no. 2, June 2016, p. 3. EBSCOhost, 
doi:10.1002/casr.30164.
Tseng, Chun-Hao, et al. “Performance of Campus Parking Garages in Preventing Crime.” Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities, vol. 18, no. 1, 2004, pp. 21–28.
Patten, Ryan, et al. “Policing: An International Journal.” Emeraldinsight, 10 June 2016, www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/PIJPSM-04-2016-0055.
“Property Crime.” FBI, FBI, 25 Aug. 2017, ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2016/crime-in-the-u.s.-2016/topic-pages/property-crime
“Property Crime.” FBI, FBI, 16 Aug. 2016, ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2015/crime-in-the-u.s.-2015/offenses-known-to-law-enforcement/property-crime.
2017 Annual Security Report. 2017, 2017 Annual Security Report. 
Lit Review
As far as campus police go, I never thought too deeply into their role as part of the security force on campus. From what I knew about them, I just assumed that they attempt to stop any crime that is being committed in front of them. I figured most students probably think this way, dismissing them as “campus police” instead of regular police. This notion is studied in the article, “The continued marginalization of campus police” by Ryan Patten, Lucas Alward and Matthew Thomas. In their introduction they bring this problem to light. They say that the campus police have become more and more like their city police counterparts, but have not found the same authority that their peers carry with them((Patten et al. 1). That led me to propose two questions to myself. One, why did people think less of campus police in the first place? And two, does this disrespect have any substantial effect on the crimes that are committed on campus?
	The first question was answered fairly directly in the study. Patten and his colleagues recite the history of the campus police or “night watchmen” as they were called previously. Yale was the first institution to employ them and their jobs at first were very different from that of their roles today. They mostly checked for locked doors, tended boilers, and generally protected university property(Patten et al. 4). However during the 1960’s and 70’s the massive amounts of political and civil unrest grew to be too much for these watchmen and the universities required trained officers to control the disorder. This of course came in the form of the campus police. Patten, Alward, and Thomas found that ever since this period of time, more and more stride have been made to legitimize these officers however, “The placement of police officers in an academic setting often force campus police into a variety of roles that may conflict with the crime fighter mentality. Thus, despite these clear parallels between campus law enforcement and municipal police, campus police are frequently not perceived as ‘real’ cops”(Patten et al. 5). While this answered my first question, I was surprise that the answer was so intricate. I had no idea that these officers were the equivalent of true policemen. 
Because of their findings I was able to come up with a conclusion that answered my second question. Public support is one of the most important things for a officer to have, and since it was very clear that students in general think lesser of the campus police it was obvious that the students lack of support affected their ability to maintain the peace. The obvious solution was to then find a way to change the mentality of the students so that the ability for the campus police to maintain order would be better. I wasn’t sure how to do this however. The rest of Patten’s article did not focus on bettering the officers reputation but rather described their study on the marginalization of the campus police. Without an idea for how to better the reputation of the on campus police officers, I was unable to include this into the final essay. However, this article still had valuable evidence that was relevant to the essay such as how the perception of the campus police affect their ability to fight crime. Using this angle on the article I was able to show the aspects of campus security that were lacking for one reason or another. Through this, the article supported our claim that increasing the security on campus would be beneficial to the students.





Literature Review for “The Key to Auto Theft: Emerging Methods of Auto Theft from the Offenders’ Perspective”  
We have been searching to find out what is the motive of vehicle theft offenders to commit the crimes. In the article “The Key to Auto Theft: Emerging Methods of Auto Theft from the Offenders’ Perspective” by Heith Copes and Michael Cherbonneau, the authors discover the reasons offenders commit auto vehicle theft. This article is a great source to see it from the offenders’ perspective of what vehicles and people they target when they desire to commit the crime. This article was from 2006 which is one year outdated from the recommended source reliability, but it still provides insightful information regarding how offenders steal vehicles and which vehicles are most at risk.The only downfall from this article is it doesn’t provide clear solutions to the reader on how to prevent from being a victim of this victimless crime.
Vehicle theft has been a leading crime in property crimes in the U.S. and even with improvement from vehicle manufactures up to today, criminals still find a way to accomplish the crime. In this article, the authors provids an interview from two different groups of offenders to find out their reasons for committing property crimes and how they accomplished it. Copes and Cherbonneau conducted interviews with offenders from Tennessee and prisoners from Louisiana in the United States. There were fourty-two offenders from Tennessee and twelve offenders from Louisiana prisons that were interviewed for their study (Copes+ Cherbonneau 919). Out of all the intervieews, Copes and Cherbonneau found that twenty-seven from all the corespondents explained the motive for motor vehicle theft. Out of the twenty-seven, six participants were white, nineteen were black, one hispanic and one Asian (Copes and Cherbonneau 920). 
Before reading this article, I believed that individuals that committed motor vehicle theft searched every vehicle to see which was easist to steal. In the article, most of the offenders described the reasons for stealing the vehicles or what was in it simply because of desire or desperation. One offender stated that their mindset was not to steal a vehicle prior to the action, but a thought at the moment of the crime (920). Offenders usually target vehicles that they find something interesting about. Offenders with experience don’t go around lurking in every vehicle to see which vehicle is best for them to burglarize. Most of the time, offenders keep their eyes open to vehicles that they see people left unattended with the keys in the ignition. This is easy for them because they don’t have to have physical interactions with the victim, because most offenders that were interviewed confessed that they prefer not to have confrontations with the victims (Copes+Cherbonneau 924). 
I also discovered that vehicle theft criminals rather search for the vehicle in areas where no one would expect their vehicles to get burglarized or stolen like safe neighborhoods or busy public places (Copes+Cherbonneau 922). It is easier to steal vehicles there, because people leave their keys in the car because people are careless and they feel safe from motor vehicle theft crimes. When it is not possible for criminals to steal vehicles in such a place, they keep an eye on vehicles that are easy to steal. Copes and Cherbonneau discovered that the offenders got a set of master keys to open easy acessible vehicles such as old model vehicles. The most targeted vehicles that are stolen with the master keys are older model Toyotas and Hondas (927). Offenders can steal vehicles with master keys in a matter of seconds becuase of the poorly manufactured ignition switches on the vehicles.
This article works perfect to show the audience of our group project on motor vehicle theft on how victims are selected by these criminals. This article gives a perspective from the criminals’ point of view and it helps people avoid the mistakes criminals are expecting from their victims. Motor vehicle theft is a serious property crime problem in the U.S. and every person needs to be aware of the consequences if they are caught “slipping” like the intervieews said regarding the victims that accidentally gave the offender the upper hand of stealing their vehicle. 





Literature Review for  “Performance of Campus Parking Garages in Preventing Crime.”
Nothing can be more disheartening for college students, than walking towards their car after a long day of study, only to find it with a broken window and no valuables inside, or not even find their car at all. Yet this nightmare becomes reality to some students, and this crime can have a much greater impact because of the fact of their incredibly high expenses going towards their school and making it hard to recover from a terrible event. This should not be a reality for students to face and the article “Performance of Campus Parking Garages in Preventing Crime”, by Chun-Hao Tseng, Josann Duane, and Fabian Hadipriono, analyzes what is causing the car thefts and how to stop or prevent them. This article as stated in the title, focuses mainly upon parking garages and states some items that could counter the crime. 
	This article was created on February 2004 in order to add more security measures the parking garage of Ohio State University, and it focuses upon the idea of Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED), and it focuses on changing the environment to one that lowers the incidence and fear of crime. It does this by reducing through two strategies. The first being limiting access to the garage, such as using gates or doors. The second is creating an environment that stops criminals through ways such as adding more surveillance and lights. These strategies are not only applicable to parking garages, but also parking lots, parks, and even streets. The article’s focus then shifts to the research done on the seven parking garages.
The research focus specifically on the .types of crimes committed, with the majority being theft at forty nine, and also on the days where most of the crime was committed, being mainly weekdays than weekends.While these studies then proceed to focus more upon the area around the university and makes information that can be used for other places, such as University, harder to use since they are two different cities with different crime rates. However, this information would be critical to Ohio State University Students, and it would affect them positively.
A survey is conducted to the people that use the parking garage in order to find out what is the best solution for deterring the crime. The survey was incredibly simple and quick in order to allow the participants not feel like if they were doing a chore, and still provide enough information for the research. The only flaw i found was on the third part of the survey, in which it asks for the age of the participant, when it is hard to see a connection between the age and how it would benefit the research. On the other hand, it was a wise move to include the reason that a participant would park in the garage because not everybody uses indoor parking for the same reason and it can display if there are other problems, or even if there were past assumption that are now incorrect. Yet, there can be questions added to the survey in order to apply it to a major audience and gain a wider scope for a solution that benefits majority of the people. An example of a question can be about why people do not park in the garage and the reason why. 
After all the research was conducted, the team came to a solution of the second strategy of adding more lights to the gurage, and deterring criminals from creeping in the shadows and causing crimes. Furthermore, the increase of lights would be cheaper than installing for example a bigger gate or ID scanners The research conducted was organized fairly well, and provided a vast amount of information that can be applicable towards other places, and even inspire other schools to conduct research similar to this one in order to create a more secure campus. 




Literature Review 
College Students feel that their campus is not safe from car theft or any other crime. They feel that increasing the security will help decrease the crime rates by a little. Even though increasing the security, it can also increase the budget, which college students pay with their tuition. Most crime happen during night time, so either we get more security or police or get more lighting in campus. Many students would not want this because it comes out from their financial aids. However do you want a safer campus or dangerous campus. 
Joseph T. Crouse research in 2014 was about some college campus can benefit from increasing security. According to his studies he found that colleges in the United States from the Northeast and Midwest are benefiting from security increase, while college from West and South in the United States are not benefiting. Crouse states that, campuses in the Northeast and Midwest may be best to increase their campus police force since the responsiveness is flexibly, whereas, the South and West may be best to invest in other forms of crime deterrence program such as Campus Escort services and crime prevention awareness (70).College that are in the Northeast and midwest of the United States are having benefits to increasing in security, unlike West and South Crouse prefer them to have program to help prevent crimes. Crouse found that campus with the highest budget on security tend to have more crime rates (52). Campus that pay expensively on security have and will have more crimes rates. Crouse also found that student that lives in college dorms and campus that is near unemployment places would have more crime rates (52). Crouse claims that, college that have less crime rates have less communities crime rates also (52). Unemployment communities have higher crime rates than communities that  have high employment rate.  Communities that have high unemployment rates tend to have crime than communities that have employment rates. Solving this issue with increasing security is a the best way, but increasing security mean that you have to pay more on the budget. 
Having more security can benefits the safety of student, but the cost of increasing can ruin students tuitions. Crouse states, “The first step for an economic approach to reducing crime is an understanding of a basic assumption: crime is rational” (55).  This points out that crime is logical, which the communities can prevent crimes from happening. Crouse claims that, “One chooses to partake in criminal activity because it is the most profitable option available to the criminal” (55). Crime is a choice to choose, which people choose the wrong choice, which lead to a crime. Crouse says that communities that spend less money on security or prevention of crime, crime rates are “ceteris paribus” (stay the same) (56). Even though crimes is expensive, but college students and other people in the communities need to know the three basic rule of victimization.
The three victimization terminology that criminology give are lack of guardian, vulnerable targets and motivated offenders. Crouse states that, “criminal behavior is the result of determinism, meaning that factors such as poverty, intelligence, early life experiences, and unemployment influence” (58). Negative behavior can lead to an unsuccessful life in the future, usually this happen in unemployment neighborhood. The author claims, “police serve three roles: they handle offenders, guard targets/victims, and manage places”. Police job is to manage criminal, protect citizen, help the communities.  Crouse says that, “not all campus police officers are sworn officer” (59). They have no rights to arrest you unless they have probable cause. 
College campuses need to provide safety for students, not just in campus but outside of campus too. Even though campuses in the United States are different from each other, but being safe is better than nothing. College tuition will be high if we increase security, but having a safe campus would provReide more money and more students would be be safe will coming in. Campus should hired sworn officer than officer have no have not taken the oath because having experience officer would help college campus crime rates. Even though crime rates are raising on some colleges, but having, “10% in the police force would lead to a 3% to 10% reduction in crime rates” (54) is better than having nothing. 













Essay Contributions
Sam Doe: Intro, Conclusion, Paragraphs 8 and 15Sam Doe: Paragraphs 8 to 11. Environment of CrimeSam Doe: Survey paragraph, data findings from FBI,-  paragraphs from page 2 to page 4
Sam Doe: Paragraphs 13-14. Counter Argument
