Battle of the Websites 

	Living in the twenty-first century, the majority of people spend a significant amount of time on the internet for various reasons. Whether a person is seeking entertainment or news about the current state of the world, one quick Google search can provide an individual with thousands of options. When a person is exploring through the internet trying to find some news sources, they may stumble upon either Buzzfeed or Townhall which are two very different websites. Buzzfeed is aimed to reach audiences of the age range 18-25 whereas Townhall is designed to be a conservative and republican based news source for all ages. Not only do these sites differ in the approach of their audiences, but they also differ in layout along with their usage of Egos, Logos, and Pathos. 
	Buzzfeed has recently become more accessible for people who are active on Snapchat. Snapchat has provided a quick link to stay connected to this sources information along with fun quizzes to participate in. Being a young adult- focused website, the layout represents the “young vibe” that is trying to be expressed. The website is composed of several bright colors to grasp readers attentions. At the top of the main screen, there are quick links with different labels such as “wtf” and “lol”. When the reader clicks on these links, it transports to a page with several different articles. One article was a DIY mishap compilation entitled, “19 DIYs Literally No One Asked For” by Sarah Aspler. The article shows funny pictures of people who have abused their privileges of the do- it- yourself industry and the internet. Some examples include real bug nail art, turning a doll into a wine glass, and a corsage made out of condoms (Aspler). The article is full of fun colors and large pictures to really show the reader what is being talked about. 
	In the case of Townhall, the layout is very different. There are fewer colors with the focus being on red, white, and blue to probably incite a patriotic feel among the reader. The headlines of articles are not nearly as eye-catching for an 18-year-old as disastrous DIYs however they are grabbing the reader’s attention if the reader in question is a conservative or has conservative viewpoints on politics. One article entitled, “You Can Probably Guess What ABC, CBS, and NBC Did When the Hillary- DNC Rigging Story Broke” would probably grab the attention of an individual who normally visits this site. The article is written by Matt Vespa and begins with a large picture of Hillary Clinton which is probably intending to draw out some feelings of hatred towards the democratic politician. The article continues to explain how in 2016, Clinton rigged the primary election to get her the nomination. (Vespa). The article includes no fun pictures to keep the attention of the reader. The article contains simple fonts for the text without large colors. 
	Buzzfeed strongly uses the aspect of Pathos in their writings. Most articles are driven by emotions, but not always negative or sad emotions. A large part of the content on the website aspires to achieve happiness and include humor to use Pathos. However, the one article discovered uses Logos to appeal to the audience’s logic about twenty-first century conformity and gender roles. The article is entitled, “This 30-Year-Old Play About Gender and Asian Identity is More Relevant Than Ever” written by Louis Peitzman talks about a play by the name of M. Butterfly. The article uses the appeal of logic to explain how in the play the stereotypes of gender roles and cultural expectations are brought to light and how they pertain to our current lives in 2017 (Peitzman).  The play focuses on a straight male who falls in love with a man who was pretending to be a Chinese woman. The article goes further into depth about the roles of gender conformity and how it relates to today’s current situation. Buzzfeed also has a limited sense of Ethos throughout the website. Several articles use other sources to provide information. The writers at Buzzfeed lose some credibility when they site a different news or media outlet in their own writing as a way to portray the facts of the story. 
	Townhall on the other hand, is very different. Townhall uses Pathos in pictures, but not to the same degree as Buzzfeed. Townhall has simplistic pictures on the websites that relate to the story without adding too much drama. Many of the pictures are very plain and simplistic so they do not distract from the important information that is being shared in the articles. Townhall also uses Logos and Ethos in their writing. The stories that are being posted to this website all sound very educated and the writers seem to know what they are talking about. The Egos is present in the aspect that the writers use quotes and cite sources properly when used throughout the writing. Townhall uses Logos by appealing to the audience’s political preferences. The writers use logic and put a conservative spin on all of the articles and the headlines in order to draw in the attention of the reader. 
	Townhall and Buzzfeed are two very different news outlets meant for two very different groups of people. Even though Buzzfeed may lean slightly liberal, it is still a site meant for any teenager who is in the mood for some simple entertainment, while still offering news stories if the reader wants to pursue them. Townhall has a very serious tone while focusing on many issues in today’s world along with many political aspects of life. The different audiences look for different layouts in each site which are properly depicted for the reader’s interest. The variety of audiences are important to take in mind when designing a website and both of these examples do an excellent job pertaining to people they are trying to reach. 


Aspler, Sarah. “19 DIYs Literally No One Asked For.” BuzzFeed, www.buzzfeed.com/sarahaspler/diys-literally-no-one-asked-for?utm_term=.ma1LJBpmW#.pegeXAvw6. 
Vespa, Matt. “ICYMI: You Can Probably Guess What ABC, CBS, and NBC Did When The Hillary-DNC Rigging Story Broke.” Townhall, Townhall.com, 10 Nov. 2017, townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2017/11/10/icymi-you-can-probably-guess-what-abc-cbs-and-nbc-did-when-the-hillary-dnc-rig-n2405013 
Peitzman, Louis. “This 30-Year-Old Play About Gender And Asian Identity Is More Relevant Than Ever.” BuzzFeed, www.buzzfeed.com/louispeitzman/this-30-year-old-play-about-gender-and-asian-identity-is?utm_term=.wllBl6QoP#.uw0ZV6l9z.
