Shooting for a Change
Gun violence continues to transpire in every culture regardless of the people and environment. This brutality has become a scary common occurrence in the United States. The founding fathers deemed it necessary for the right to bear arms, but today it’s hard to wonder what they were thinking. This is an issue that will not be solved overnight, but needs to be discussed to understand the viewpoints, and what changes can be made. Gun control is necessary for the United States in order for the citizens to be able to live in a safe environment.
Many Americans choose to neglect the issues that occur on a daily basis. Gun brutality has become hard to overlook because of the reoccurring tragedies. A scary statistic from Dalasi states, “a 2016 study published in the journal Violence and Victims reported that 292 mass shooting incidents took place worldwide between 1966 and 2012; nearly one-third of these were in the United States” (1). This number shows that there is an obvious problem occurring in our nation. If no change is made, then this number will only continue to increase, and these tragedies will only become a normality in society. When a tragedy happens in the United States often citizens often feel sorrow for a day or two, but then very quickly return to their own busy lives. Americans can continue to look the other way, until it happens in their hometown with their family and friends as the innocent helpless victims. 
Medicine and guns have a few similarities. Both can be used for positive and negative reasons, yet the one difference is to obtain medicine you have to go to a doctor, show identification, learn about the drug, and how to take it correctly. A gun on the other hand can be bought in many states without any identification or any questions about what the gun will be used for. A CBS news poll shows, “…one in five gun owners have never had any formal training on the guns they own” (4). If one is not given the proper training on how to operate a weapon, how can citizens expect gun violence not to occur. Can teenagers get their driver license without passing a test that shows they know how to operate the vehicle safely? No, they have to show that they are capable of operating such a machinery safely while able to understand and follow the rules that come with it. This principle should be applied when buying a gun. Training should come along with purchasing a gun can result in many lives saved from gun violence. 
In states like Nevada and Mississippi open carry of guns is legal, and so is gun shows. Therefore, in 19 states within the United States, buying a gun is like buying a new pair of shoes. In an article by Alan Mozes he describes the necessity in stricter background checks when it comes to gun shows, “gun shows without universal background checks on all sales can result in guns being sold to people who then go out and use these to shoot other people” (3). Without background checks people who are mentally ill, and violent offenders can have easy access to these weapons which can cause great damage when not in the right hands. Leasing a car requires a background check to make sure you are a trustworthy individual that can handle the obligations that comes with a new car, yet buying a gun seems to be quick easy purchase. Both a gun and a car have the capability to kill others, so both should be bought with background checks. A gun should be bought by someone if they understand the amount of responsibility that comes with the purchase. Background checks have the ability to stop unnecessary violence.
Hunters say most guns are used for recreational use, the National Institute of Justice says, “In the same year, data collected by the FBI show that firearms were used in 68 percent of murders” (1). It is easy to understand this viewpoint because hunting is a hobby, around the country that brings joy and happiness to many people, but guns are not simply equipment that can be used in a sport, yet they have the potential to cause real permeant damage to innocent victims.  Many Americans throughout the country feel strongly about having the freedom to have a gun. It is understandable that Americans should maintain this right as a citizen, but some regulations should be applied to keep society safe.
Some say gun control will take away a right from The Constitution, yet in reality gun control wants to place laws in order to make this country safer, and lessen the number of violent attacks in the country. The Constitution states, “A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed” (Staff 1).  This amendment was written in 1791; the United States has changed over the past 226 years. Making all gun’s illegal is not a valid solution for this reoccurring problem, instead placing laws that can change the lives of many would have a greater impact. It is understandable that Americans should maintain this right as a citizen, but some regulations should be applied to keep society safe. With open conversation between the two sides of this argument, dialogue can change the future of country for the good. 
The sources above show the problem that gun violence has become in our country. The only way horrific events like Columbine, Sandy Hook, Aurora Movie Theater, Pulse Night Club in Orlando, and a music concert in Las Vegas are going to lessen is if changes are made to gun laws in our country. Banning guns throughout the country is not an option, instead laws can be put in place to try to regulate the purchases of guns in our country. In conclusion, all citizens in the United States want to feel safe in their own country, so everyone needs to work together in order to make that a reality for all in America.
Works Cited
 Dalasi, Tracey M. “Gun Control: Overview.” Points of View: Gun Control, Jan. 2017, p. 1. Points of View Reference Center, EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=pwh&AN=120815155&site=pov-live. Accessed 26 Oct. 2017.
"CBS News Poll: Will Gun Violence Increase in the Next Decade?" CBS News, 13 Mar 2016, www.cbsnews.com/news/cbs-news-poll-will-gun-violence-increase-in-the-next-decade. Accessed 21 Dec. 2016.
Mozes, Alan. “Can Gun Shows Trigger Gun Violence?” MedicineNet, HealthDay, 24 Oct. 2017, www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=207819.
Staff, LII. “Second Amendment.” LII / Legal Information Institute, Cornel Law School, 5 Feb. 2010, www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/second_amendment.
“Gun Violence.” National Institute of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, 27 Mar. 2017, www.nij.gov/topics/crime/gun-violence/pages/welcome.aspx.
