 Rhetorical Analysis
	The world today is a more women empowerment society. There are still issues that need to be solved but it has come a long way since the 1920’s. Women today are standing up and reaching out to each other to help one another. In the excerpt “Letter to my Daughter” by Maya Angelou, Angelou gives some personal life events that talk about her “continual struggle against a condition of surrender” (Angelou, 2012)  and also some positive events that came out of her struggles. She talks about growing up as a minority, discovering her self body image and urges, her role models, and more importantly motherhood. In Maya Angelou (1928 – 2014) – Favour and Encounters [analysis] by Reginald Ofodile, Ofodile talks about some of the struggles Angelou faced as an African American. He also talks about meeting Angelou in person and how he felt she was an important inspiring and spirited character. From a woman who had struggled she “reflected, so acutely, nearly a century of America’s social, political, and economic history.” ( Ofodile, 2014). Angelou’s letter is a way of reflecting back on her life struggles and trying to help and reach to those that are struggling. Particularly woman.  She is playing the role of a mother giving advice to her daughter. She manages to do this by using persuasion appeals throughout the whole letter. They are pathos and ethos.
Angelou titles her book “Letter to My Daughter” but it is known she has no daughter. She has a son named Guy who she had as a teenager but no daughter. It is not a letter to her son but a letter to those she considers her daughters. Women that face struggles like she has. Her intended audience is the women she consider her  “daughters” so she can give a bit of wisdom and advice to them. That is why she uses personal life events, those daughters reading it can relate and take what Angelou is 

											           2
trying to give them.  Angelou considers herself as “a lover of mankind.” and as “charitable”. She has “learned that to be charitable with gestures and words can bring 
enormous joy and repair injured feelings.” (Angelou, 2012 ). This book shows in what she believes in. She had her grandmother and mother giver her advice and help her  struggles. She also saw them struggle. As a lover of mankind she wants to give back to help the community of her daughters just like she was helped.  In an interview with Maya Angelou done by Shalonna McRoy, McRoy asks Angelou “  you mention “ a kind word, a cote of support is a charitable gift,” and that you will give freely of your resources…” (McRoy, 2011).  Angelou replies with “Malcom told me that I would always be listened to because I have a human soul..”. (McRoy, 2011). Not only did Angelou see her self as charitable but the Malcom did too. 
	Angelou had faced many struggles concerning  racism. She points it out in the excerpt, “ The South…demoting even adult blacks to psychological dwarfs.”(Angelou, 2012  ) as an example of how she had to surrender because she was born a certain color. As a reader this part creates emotion. Since we live in a society where racism is looked down upon and segregation doesn’t exist it makes a reader feel sympathetic. In Ofodile’s analysis, he talks about how the community in which Angelou grew up in was terrorized by the famous Ku Klux Klan.  Also how she was discriminated to be treated by a white doctor and no being able to rent an apartment in the liberal California.( Ofodile, 2014, ). She is known to be a civil rights activist and it shows she did not let those who wanted to make her feel less do that and bring her down. It is an inspirational story to readers. She used pathos to get through the readers by sharing her experience with racism. 
	Another way Angelou uses pathos is through motherhood. The title is the first sign that shows that Angelou will be talking in a mother perspective or something related to motherhood. This will most likely call the attention of woman. Because they are either a mother, a daughter, or both. In the excerpt Angelou talks about how her grandmother was an important role in how she saw the world. She states she was called her “shadow” (Angelou, 2012). Motherhood is a sensitive subject to everyone. But women are more emotional and sensitive. Angelou first talks about her grandmother 
											           3
and then brings up her mother. After she then talks about how as a teenager she was beginning to notice her body. Every woman goes through body change so they can relate and know what Angelou talks about. She goes on to say that after noticing her 
body she had a sexual encounter  and got pregnant with a boy whom she did love. A mother’s reading this may think of their little girl and think how they would not wan’t this to happen to them.  She goes on and says that she was worried about her mother knowing about her pregnancy but was surprised when her mother was supportive.  She includes a tender moment with her mother during her labor, “When the pains came she told me the punch line of the stories and as I laughed, she told me, “Bear down”.’’(Angelou, 2012 ). The day a child is born their mother will always remember it, This brings back memories of those readers who are mothers and also it can make a daughter wonder how her mother went though her birth.  Angelou’s pregnancy is important because it shows how a bad decision that caused a bad experience had a good out come. 
	Logos is used by Angelou as she tells her readers her personal life events.  Experience is looked everywhere in the world. From applying to a job to making people believe you. Angelou experience with her struggles makes her more believable and looked up to for the readers. If someone who didn’t s know struggle wrote a book about struggles a lot of people would not read it or would thins the book is a bunch of lies. 
 	Maya Angelou had to faced many struggles growing up. But she did not let that stop her from becoming someone. Instead she used her struggles and  personal life events to help others that are struggling. She has great sympathy toward women. She has no discrimination against any of them and considers them all of them her daughters. In “Letter to My Daughter” she shows the love she has for them. She tries to get to move and get to her daughters by using persuasion appeals that are pathos and logos.  Maya considers herself a  mother to millions of women and millions of women see her as one. 



											 4
Works Cited:

McRoy, Shalonna. "One-on-One with Maya Angelou." Sun Reporter, May 05, 2011, pp. 2-L2,L2A, Ethnic NewsWatch, https://search-proquest-com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/docview/868916689?accountid=10349.


“Maya Angelou (1928 - 2014) - Flavour and Encounters Analysis]." AllAfrica.com, Jun 15, 2014, Global Newsstream, https://search-proquest-com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/docview/1535812795?accountid=10349.
  
