
Grocery Shopping for Drugs 
	Drug overdose has taken many lives during the past years. The Assembly Bill 186, authored by assemblywoman Susan Eggman, D-Stockton which allow 8 countries and cities supervised drug injections. Christopher M. Jones, PharmD; Karin A. Mack, Ph.D.; Leonard J. Paulozzi, MD, “Pharmaceutical Overdose Deaths, United States, 2010”, according to the result of overdoses, “In 2010, there were 38,329 drug overdose deaths in the United States”.  Most drugs that kill these individuals, “most common drugs that cause drug overdose is pharmaceuticals 22 134. Second highest is an unspecified drug, for example, medicaments and biological substances, an initial encounter which claims 9,429. Third is pharmaceutical-related overdose deaths, which is 16,451. Lastly, unintentional drug usage, which causes suicides were 3,780” (Jones, 658). People also complain about legalizing drug usage, which can make America economy raise, however, we should not benefit from the misery from other people. According to “Legalize Prescription Drug Imports, Says Drug Giant CVS”, states that America should legalize prescription drug from other countries, so we can also benefit from people buying imports prescription drug. This idea has lots of pros and cons because it can help the US economy, but letting this bill pass, the drug addiction would increase by double.
	Today, drugs are criminalized not because of medical usage, but more of misusing. According to Jensen Bretteville, “To Legalize or Not to Legalize? Economic Approaches to the Decriminalization of Drugs”, Bretteville talks about why drugs shouldn’t be legal and stay illegal. Bretteville states that, “Decriminalization or legalization will probably not change adults’ choice of intoxicants overnight, but who’s to say how drug-using habits will be in 50 years time?” (Bretteville, 563). Even though adult see that drug is okay today, but what will happen in the next 50 years. According to Bretteville studies, she says that drugs was criminalized because of drugs side effects, such as harm other, can cause death to self, and can cause others to do drugs. Even though drugs are seen as criminalize, addicts and other people are still using it. While the price of drugs increase, addicts tend to buy less and when the drug price decrease addicts tend to buy more.
	According to the graph in, “Decriminalization or legalization will probably not change adults”, Bretteville shows that during 1993 to 2003 the price of heroin was expensive then gradually drop. While heroin was expensive, addicts tend to buy less, when heroin price drop, addicts tend to buy more and more people are influenced by the price drop. The price of drugs matter to addicts, if the assembly bill was to be global, yes it will help prevent of diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis and other criteria. 
	Drugs can benefit many criteria in the U.S. For example, the economy, support disabilities, develop entrepreneurs and prevent the spread of HIV and STD.  According to Susan Eggman assembly bill states, “Educate participants on the risks of contracting HIV and viral hepatitis” (Eggman). If the bill passes, patients that goes to these companies, they will teach these individuals about how to prevent HIV and viral hepatis. Also states, “Provide overdose prevention education and access to or referrals to obtain naloxone hydrochloride or another overdose reversal medication approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration”. According to World Health Organization (WHO), “70 million people have been infected with the HIV virus and about 35 million people have died of HIV”. Passing the bill will stop the prevention of HIV and low cause of death from illegal drug usage. Also passing the bill can help our economics, In the article, “Should drug be decriminalised? No”, by Joseph A. Califano, Jr stated, “Vigorous and intelligent enforcement of criminal law makes drugs harder to get and more expensive” (Califano). Making drugs harder and expensive to get will help people be less addicted and more children and teenager will  know less about drugs.  Drugs are misuse everywhere in the world, especially when come to teenager. 
If Assembly Bill 186, authored by assemblywoman Susan Eggman were to pass, “Legalizing drugs could affect the number of users through several channels” (Bretteville). I agree legalizing drug will affect the number of users. When an addict first gets into the drug they want more in the system, which leads to overdosing. Bretteville claims that, “Cheaper drugs may induce some nonusers to take up “the habit” if high expenditures previously prevented them from doing so”. If drug become cheaper than alcohol, alcoholic might choose drug over alcohol instead because it cheaper and can make you be addicted to it faster. Bretteville insist that “restricting legalization to “soft drugs” like cannabis could still affect the number of “hard drug” users if the stepping stone hypothesis or the gateway theory is right”. If they were to legalized drugs like cannabis (Marijuana) then people will want other drugs like meth and cocaine to also be legalized. Even though we legalize drug people will do more heavy drugs and if we illegalized drug, people still wouldn’t care about drugs. There is program that help children and teenager to not use drugs.
Programs that supports drugs abuse is D.A.R.E (Drug Abuse Resistance Education). In the article, “A Multivariate Approach to a Meta-Analytic Review of the Effectiveness of the D.A.R.E. Program”, Wei Pan and Haiyan Bai states that D.A.R.E, “is a widespread but controversial school-based drug prevention program in the United States as well as in many other countries”. According to their studies they found that, “a less than small overall effect while the effects on psychosocial behavior varied with still a less than small overall effect”. Also, “the characteristics of the studies significantly explained the variation of the heterogeneous effects on psychosocial behavior, which provides empirical evidence for improving the school-based drug prevention program”. The D.A.R.E program is still a work progress for students because they found that students that pledge to not do drug will do drugs in the future.
 In article the  “A Multivariate Approach to a Meta-Analytic Review of the Effectiveness of the D.A.R.E. Program”, Pan and Bai states that D.A.R.E program is still not preventing enough child and teenager from doing drugs. I agree with this issue because they teach student in elementary about drugs which these students don’t even know what drugs is. Pan and Bai quoted, “The D.A.R.E. program was designed to help elementary and junior high school students resist the peer-pressure of experimenting with drugs, tobacco, and alcohol”. This is a failure toward communities because why are you teaching children and teenager around the age of 12-13 about drugs. We shouldn’t stop teaching students about drugs until after high school. Not then we should teach at all because I think this program is hurting the poor communities, for example, areas at south west Fresno.  When students pled to D.A.R.E, they pled to not do drugs at all, but most high school student do drugs, and most common drug is use is marijuana. Pan and Bai observe that, “some D.A.R.E program are not affecting the drugs usage, some D.A.R.E program are affecting, but it sometimes it is long-term, and some are short-term (1 year)”.  I agree this failure because long-terms effect happen in rich area, such as Clovis, and the short-term effect happen in poor area, such as southwest Fresno. The authors quoted, “Considering the tremendous investment of time and money in the D.A.R.E. program, these inconsistent findings necessitate a conclusive synthesis of the research to assess the effectiveness of the program”. We as the people in our communities are wasting our money and time on something that does work on most communities such as Fresno communities.  Toward the end of the article the authors stated, “The analysis from this review also identified areas in the new versions of the D.A.R.E. program that need improvement. It would be, however, more important if the new versions of the D.A.R.E. program could transform the improved psychosocial behavior into the student's’ actions of reducing drug use—the ultimate outcome”. If we were to improve the D.A.R.E programs today, so in the future student will mostly likely to stop using drug in a young age.
Legalize or not to legalize drugs depends on the communities. Around the world drugs are misuse, while other use drug as medication. Even though drugs were to be illegalize, people will find way to use drugs. If drugs were to be legalize then, everyone will be about to use drug. According to my studies on Susan Eggman Assembly Bill 186, I think the U.S congress shouldn’t pass the bill. Yes, I agree that it would help prevent HIV and economy will raise, but I care more about child safety. If I were to have a child, I don’t want him or her live in a world where people are allowing to bring their own drugs to clinic just to get injected, but I understand if drugs user need these prescription drugs, but most likely young adult will just go there to get injected to feel good not for medical.



Work Cited
Bretteville-Jensen, Anne Line. “To Legalize or Not To Legalize? Economic Approaches to the Decriminalization of Drugs.” Substance Use &Amp; Misuse, vol. 41, no. 4, 2006, pp. 555–565.
Califano, Joseph A. “Should Drugs Be Decriminalised? No.” BMJ, vol. 335, no. 7627, 2007, p. 967.
HIV/AIDS. (n.d.). Retrieved November 07, 2017, from http://www.who.int/gho/hiv/en
Jones, Christopher M, Karin A Mack, and Leonard J Paulozzi. "Pharmaceutical Overdose Deaths, United States, 2010." JAMA 309.7 (2013): 657-59. Web.
 “Legalize Prescription Drug Imports, Says Drug Giant CVS.” Physicians Financial News, vol. 22, no. 6, 2004, p. 19.
Wei Pan, and Haiyan Bai. “A Multivariate Approach to a Meta-Analytic Review of the Effectiveness of the D.A.R.E. Program.” International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, vol. 6, no. 1, 2009, pp. 267–277.
