Critical Commentary
	Technology is slowly taking away all of the jobs for everyone with or without a degree. Manufacturing jobs account for less than 10 per cent of the American workforce. Plants have closed or displaced employees which has caused employees to seek work in fast food or in a big box retail store where the pay and benefits are substantially less attractive. But even fast food and big box retail stores are fading away do to technology. McDonalds is introducing “digital ordering kiosks” that are expected to replace human cashiers at 5,500 restaurants by the end of 2018. Nearly 2 million long-distance truck drivers in the United States, most of whom are male and lack a college degree, paying for these drivers accounts for 1/3 of the costs in the 700 million dollar trucking industry. Even manual labor jobs are being taken away by robots. A New York based firm introduced a laser guided system that can lay 800-1200 bricks a day, more than twice as many as an average brick mason. Warehouse jobs have seemed to be something of a bright spot, even if fewer people are required to staff a Target or a Sam’s club outlet the movement of products requires a network of warehouses to store and ship goods. Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, currently has more than 90,000 employees at its U.S. distribution centers and planes to hire 10’s of thousands more. As of right now workers are still required to package the products that are purchases online. The same factors that make warehouses a draw for labor have made them tempted to develop robots to do this job. In 2012 Amazon spent almost 800 million to buy robotics company called Kiva, which makes robots that can zoom around a factory floor and move tall stacks of shelves of up to 750 pounds. This could save Amazon up to 22 million a year by introducing these Kiva machines in a single warehouse. If the whole company puts in the Kiva robots them their savings could reach into the billions. Amazon’s goal is to replace human’s with robots. A privately owned company based just outside of Boston sells fully automated systems to large retail chains and resemble to old warehouses. The robots can help you build a smaller warehouse, carry more stuff, and serve more stores out of the same warehouse to give you lots of flexibility. The cost of getting the robots is astronomically high so not just any company has access to this kind of technology just yet. Because of these robotic warehouses the power lies in a select few intelligent individuals. Technology innovation has been replacing tools for a hundred years, but they have officially quit replacing tools and they now are replacing humans. For some instances things are made to make something run more efficient, like an ATM. An ATM was created to make it easier to get money out of your bank anywhere you are, but didn’t replace a bank. 
These robots are fleets of little green robots that look like race cars in a Pixar film. They are on tracks like trains and collect the cases of products and stash them on shelves until they are needed. The robots don’t need light to operate, so the warehouses would save on a power bill, don’t have to pay over time, or compensation for injuries. They will save money in just about every category that they spend it in. The robots will reduce labor costs by eighty percent. The economy is so competitive that once one company changes over to robots the next group has to keep up with the change in technology. These robots would be ran by someone sitting behind a computer typing in commands so us humans don’t have to work in the warehouse during the freezing winter and the scalding hot summer. 
The two terms I will be using are deindustrialization/automation and authoritarian. Deindustrialization and automation are very similar in definition, where deindustrialization refers to the transition from a predominantly goods-producing economy to one based on provision of services. But automation is the process by which human labor is replaced by machines. Authoritarian is where power is concentrated in the hands of a very select group of individuals who rule through centralized power and control. Authoritarian was first introduced to me as a sort of government in history class, but now that I think of it, it can be any group that is in the hands of a select few people or select few groups of people. 
Automation is seen throughout this excerpt from the beginning to the very last word. There are things today that are automated that people don’t even think about because most kids our age haven’t known any different. People don’t really even wash their cars any more because of the drive through car washes. People have been so reliable on the automation and development of technology that I don’t think we could survive without them now. Every job in the U.S. is in jeopardy of being replaced by robots. The cashier job at McDonalds has always been a job for a high school kid trying to make a little extra money and before the end of 2018, they want to have all cashiers automated with a Kiosk. Storefront retail is even losing fast ground on the market place due to online shopping. Even construction jobs are being slowly replaced by robots, where it says a New York-based firm has introduced a laser-guided system that can lay eight hundred to twelve hundred bricks a day, more than twice as many as an average mason. Deindustrialization is making its way through the economy faster than ever expected. 
Authoritarian is making way into todays society through the jobs that run the robots. Someone will always have to program these robots or someone will have to type in commands . They can even pay this person twice as much as someone who worked on the floor in the warehouse and still save money. The most important job a human can have at one of these robotic warehouses is the system operator which is similar to a flight operator. You sit behind a bunch of screens and make sure that everything is working properly and there are no mistakes. About four people were kept on staff as mechanics to service these robots. On average the system requires eight or nine people per shift to run the warehouse a fraction of what most warehouses need. Authoritarian is shown in two ways in this article, one is how the power is put in a few peoples hands in the warehouse and the other is how some companies have enough money to transform into this robotic warehouse which causes the other companies to do so. If the other companies don’t follow suit then they will fall behind and lose lots of money they could be saving. Then someone like Amazon will buy you out and turn your building into a robotic warehouse.
