
Realistic bodies equal realistic solutions
 	Anorexia is a disease that currently affects many across the globe. Whether it be a top fashion model or a fifteen-year-old flipping through the pages of their favorite magazine looking at that top model, both are affected by the consequences that come with anorexia. With the way, the fashion industry is displaying and treating the bodies of whom are involved in their advertisements, anorexia comes as no surprise. In fact, forty percent of models suffer from these disorders (Nordqvist). By forbidding the use of photoshop on such advertisements, the doing away with unhealthy models and knowledge of the causes and effects on the subject alone, anorexia can become an unknown disease to many. 
	 In the definition of Anorexia, it states that the disease affects, “primarily… young women in their teens and early twenties…” (anorexia). This is closely related to the ages the fashion industry affects. Companies hire models around these ages and soon force them into diets and routines that uncover the effects of anorexia. When these false realities of bodies begin to be advertised, many people, also around the ages of thirteen and their early twenties, fall into the same unhealthy routines as the models. This becomes a worldwide problem that is in dire need of a solution.
	Not only are models with impractical bodies prevalent in the fashion industry but so is the use of photoshop. Many advertisements are edited to make the models look more flawless then they already are. Tweaking their waists, deleting their stretchmarks and elongating their legs are only a few examples of what photoshop can do. These examples might seem like small changes but they leave large effects on the people who view these advertisements. The population begins to believe that the models in these photos are real, which they are not. To solve the use of photoshop many companies have begun to sign pledges that promise to stop using the altering device. These companies include Louis Vuitton and Moet Hennessey (LMVH) and Kering, who own top fashion houses such as Gucci, Saint Laurent and Vuitton et Dior.  Not only have influential companies but countries have also begun to ban photoshop on models. These countries include France, Italy and Israel (Hosie). They have already taken the extra step towards ending photoshop and anorexia in general. But just because certain countries and companies have begun to carry out the end of photoshop does not mean it has to stop there. One of the top consumer populations, the United States, have not yet pledged itself to the end of photoshop. If top companies and other countries follow in the footsteps of other entities, anorexia will be one step closer to extinction. 
	The pledges that companies and countries promise themselves to not only includes the end of the use of Photoshop but also the end of unhealthy models being displayed in their advertisements. In many countries, it is a law for models to provide doctors notes with their current BMI’s to show their present health status. If companies do not follow this law in France they will fall into consequences that include fines that reach up to eighty-two thousand dollars and six years of jail time. With anorexia affecting nearly forty thousand people in France, ninety percent of them being woman, these laws and consequences are much needed (BBC). Italy has also pushed towards ending Anorexia. A couple years back, the country signed a code that stated for, “… more robust body imagery at fashion shows and in advertising campaigns” (“Please). Unlike France, they currently do not have any consequences to not following this code. Is there really a point in passing these codes or laws if there are no consequences? Will people actually abide by these laws? In most cases, no. Why would a company change who they were hiring if they were doing great in sales? It almost seems pointless to sign these pledges. Many other countries should follow in Frances footsteps to create a common action across the globe when hiring models. Collective consequences should also be arranged for companies that do not abide by such laws. By deleting these models out of the picture, the population will no longer look up to bodies that are not reachable. Therefore, allowing people to realize what their bodies should look when being healthy. 
By taking these other two solutions into perspective, the knowledge on the problems that come with anorexia can spread throughout the population. News on these so-called pledges will allow the population to pay more attention to anorexia in general. Awareness on the causes and effects of Anorexia will lead people to stray away from the habits that come with the disease. Not only are pledges important to the end of anorexia but so are campaigns on the disease. There are actually many campaigns already out there that provide facts and offer awareness to the population on the topic. This includes the “Barefaced and Beautiful Without and Within” campaign, “Cubs for Coping”, the “Dove Campaign for Real Beauty” and may more (McDermott). Each campaign offers condolences to people who have anorexia or provide positive messages that defer people away from the habits that come with anorexia. Aerie, a popular lingerie company aimed at teens, has begun to push an “untouched” campaign that challenges the standards of models (Krupnick). With hiring models to do video and print aids that have “every day” bodies, the campaign provides viewers with realistic shapes and sizes to look up too. This campaign does not directly provide facts on Anorexia but it provides knowledge to the population on how bodies look naturally. Bringing more campaigns like these previously stated into the picture, the population can begin to learn about the consequences of anorexia and stray away from the unhealthy habits that come with it. 
By deleting Photoshop and models that do not fit the health criteria, many people will be out of their jobs. This will cause problems for many who work in the fashion industry. But this is not the only thing these people can do with a talent such as editing. Many other photos and films need editing as well. That way these people can just switch industries to continue with their jobs. Passing these laws or codes that many countries or companies need to surrender themselves to may seem unnecessary, that there are more dire situations that need solutions across the globe. The spreading of knowledge on anorexia will help people come to realization that this disease is not something to take lightly. Companies many also be worried that if they begin use other models, people would not buy the clothing if they see someone that has an “undesirable” body with the clothing on. This seems ridiculous, almost. When viewers see the clothing, they want to purchase on someone that looks like themselves or someone that is realistic looking, that viewer might purchase the item more than if it was on someone that had unrealistic features. 
Anorexia is large problem with many unhealthy consquences across the globe and needs full attention if it is supposed to be eliminated. With the use of photoshop and unhealthy models being banned and the spreading of knowledge on anorexia and its effects due to campaigns, anorexia will no longer be an issue for many. Without the disease affecting the population, the world can forget about such an unhealthy disorder and get one step closer to becoming a more perfect world. 

Works Cited
"Anorexia Nervosa." Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web.
Hosie, Rachel. "Elsewhere, Size Zero Models Banned." Trinuneindia News Service. N.p., 09 Sept. 2017. Web.
"France Bans Extremely Thin Models." BBC News. BBC, 06 May 2017. Web
"'Please Help Us'; Italian Fashion Officials Will Work to Counter Passion for Thinness among 
Models." The Record: A11. Dec 23 2006. ProQuest. Web. 10 Oct. 2017 .
Krupnick, Ellie. "Aerie's Unretouched Ads 'Challenge Supermodel Standards' For Young Women." The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 17 Jan. 2014. Web.
McDermott, Nicole. "6 Unique Social Good Campaigns For Eating Disorder Awareness." Greatist. Greatist, 06 June 2016. Web
