Dear Dr. Smith,
    I’ve heard from many people that college is going to be just like high school, except there’s going to be more freedom and fun.  So far that is not my experience. College is a big change from high school.  There were a lot of things then that I can’t, or shouldn’t, do now and even more things that I never did before that I will definitely have to get used to doing.  Even something as simple as checking the syllabus daily seems to me like a new routine that I have to accustom myself to, but there are more important, and difficult, things I have to do to be successful these next four years.  Whether I like it or not, I’m going to need to change the type of person I am, some would call this “growth”, and there are a few big requirements I feel I need to achieve in order to do so.  Everyone has their own definition of success and their own path to follow, and my path to success will force me abide by one simple yet crucial  rule: take college seriously.
    It may seem like something any and every student has already done, regardless to its effective thoroughness, but I will definitely need to get used to taking notes, studying, and doing homework.  As a so-called “honors” student, people automatically have high standards for me and expect me to be able to take any challenge head-on unwaveringly.  My parents would typically be quite upset with me if I got anything under below an “A”, which wasn’t very hard to do, but that isn’t the point; they thought me to be some super studious, habitually hardworking mastermind that never made any mistakes.  To be quite honest, all the good grades were mostly due to some luck and listening in class, so when I was in an actual difficult class in my junior year I had some trouble maintaining high grades.  I attempted to do lots of work outside of class but when I saw that it never paid off it discouraged me to do so.  I felt it unnecessary to put in so much effort into a class that had nothing to do with my career, especially when I already knew my grades would be sufficient enough to pass.  I am beginning to realize, however, that that is not the case in college.  Notes are incredibly important and definitely approached differently.  As Leamnson addresses, students do not learn from simply receiving information but instead must internally translate the message such that the student can understand it themselves (4).  Essentially learning how to learn will be a big change for me but I feel I have to do so in order to make progress towards success.  I will have to really pay attention to ideas and concepts that are being discussed in class and create my foundation of knowledge around it, to truly understand rather than simply remember.
    Writing papers will also have to be one of the things I take seriously in college.  I always enjoyed writing, as I feel it is an extension of my expressions.  It is a way for me to share my ideas in a way that can be well understood, as I usually have difficulties doing so verbally.  I did take papers seriously in regards to myself; I would pour out all my thoughts out and try to create a beautiful piece of work.  However, I never took it seriously in regards to the class; if it was a subject I couldn’t write about in a storytelling tone I would usually push it off to the side.  It didn’t help, either, that teachers were just as unenthused as the students.  My teachers would just tell us what the subject was and send us off to do it on our own even as we were just learning the foundations of writing.  I was able to handle this as I feel I am a much more apt writer than most students my age but I still felt insulted when the teachers didn’t care about what we wrote, so I didn’t care about what they read.  Every single paper I wrote in high school was done the night before, regardless of all the work that had to be put into it, and every single time I would get a really good grade.  I remember specifically one time my teacher using my paper as an example, stating that he knew, or thought he knew,  I had spent up to two months working on it.  It’s always been annoying that even the teachers can’t write properly, going as far as to praise a thrown together paper done just hours before.  The same cannot be said about college professors.  
The writing requirements and expectations are much higher.  I can’t continue to have the mindset that “everything is easy” as I usually do, but rather put in the time and effort in research, revising, and all the in between steps required to bring the work together.  As is shown in our course goals, by the end of this class I plan on being able to carefully utilize proper information to convey my message effectively (1).
    Along with the extraneous effort that goes into writing notes and papers, it is also required for studying, learning.  Once again, my former habits were not that of what most people would consider an honors student; I would never study or do any work out of class.  I have learned, however, that, as students, it is our job to do so.  I shouldn’t assume that whatever is discussed in class is all that needs to be known for an exam.  In order to be the exemplary student that I want to become, I must become deeply involved in the subject at hand and apply it daily to my own life.  NCTE would agree that a student should incorporate their newly learned ideas and expand it further (8).  Also, it’s more than just repetition until I can’t forget even if I tried.  I, too, have to be able to truly understand what I am learning so that I can actually apply and utilize the knowledge gained.  Leamnson states that separately, these two skills cannot allow a student to completely absorb information (1).  
    There is also the fact that I may have an entirely different way of learning than anyone else, and will have to find the strategy that best fits me.  This includes having to go through multiple trial and errors until I discover my way of learning.  I have to learn what method allows me to retain information longer and in what ways I can use the knowledge so that I feel like it will help me truly learn.  NCTE labels this as metacognition: being able to analyze how I think (9).  This will show me what techniques I can follow that will allow me to learn to the best of my ability. 
    My biggest problem will definitely be managing my short-term and long-term goals.  I always get overwhelmed when I have a lot on my plate and end up either doing less work than I could have or performing each task poorly  In high school, actually, I wouldn’t do any of the work in order to avoid any stress that may come but I plan on becoming more dedicated and interested in my work.  Being able to consistently work on an assignment in order to complete any task at hand (NCTE 9) is a trait that I wish to acquire.  These short- and long-term goals are going to be my biggest problems, as I have yet to learn how to prioritize and when to work on certain things.  
    My path to success is a long and tedious one, riddled with new skills that I have to learn and mistakes that have to be made.  In the end, though, it will all be worth it when I can say that made, which is something not a lot of people in my family can say.  
Sincerely,
Sam Doe





Works Cited
“Course Syllabus.” http://removed-this-url.com/. 
Accessed 14 September 2017.
Leamnson, Robert. “Learning Your First Job.” Center for Teaching and Learning at the 
University of Georgia, www.ctl.uga.edu/pages/learning-your-first-job. Accessed 14 
September 2017.
Council of Writing Program Administrators, National Council of Teachers of English, and the 
National Writing Project. “Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing.” Council of 
Writing Program Administrators, 11 Jan. 2011, wpacouncil.org/framework. Accessed 14 
September 2017.