Theatre Education in Schools
I’ve always thought that the arts in schools are important, especially a Theatre program. There are many reasons this is an important part of the school experience. From students with special needs to opening up minds. It helps all students feel involved, no matter if you can act or not. 
	Students with special needs benefit from theatre because it is another way to express emotion. Many students with special needs are nonverbal and communicate through sounds; learning how to do something like a theatre mirroring exercise would help them.This exercise is where one actor copies the others movements,teaching how to work together on stage.  If not only to calm them down when they are frustrated, but to find another way to communicate and connect with someone. Students with mental illness also fall in close range to this as theatre provides a emotional outlet as well. Someone who has depression or anxiety could benefit from performing as someone else helping them concentrate on the feelings of a character rather than their own feelings.  
Another instance is sports it is often a main focus in school but its not for everyone. Theatre is for something those students can be involved in and not feel left out.Theatre gives students the opportunity to meet new friends; Sometimes working with someone on a scene could promote a friendship since one has to spend a lot of time with the person. While this is true, theatre is also something someone involved in sports could do, depending on the flexibility with their sports schedule with the director. Theatre can open peoples minds, as it is often seen as feminine or something that a guy should not do. This is just simply not true, anyone can be in theatre no matter their race, gender, sexual preference, or identification.Theatre is not just about acting either, it would be nothing without the tech work that goes behind it. This is a perfect place for someone who wants to be involved in theatre but does not want to perform. Either working on the light and sound or working on the costume designs for the next show.   
Students often have not been very many places, like just been out of their state a few times. Theatre can open up someone's worldview through different shows to show there is so much that happens around the world. Just working on a play that is from a different part of the world opens your mindset because you are learning about that culture, and how they live their life. Being a character who is nothing like the actor requires a lot of research and background to figure out the best way to act as this person. 
In short, theatre should be required in schools because of the positive impacts it makes. Someones day could be made by something that they have finally put together. Or getting a superior at a competition that they worked really hard for. All students should have many options for what they could be involved in at school and theatre is a amazing option.