Social media is used every day allowing users to communicate through writing status, posting photos, and commenting. In North Americas about 62 percent of the population are users of Facebook. On average Facebook is one of the most popular social media networks used with about 845 million users. In the essay “Facebook Is Using You”, author Lori Andrews sparks suspicion that user’s personal lives maybe at risk by using Facebook and other social media networks. Andrews argues vigorously against the use of social networks because it can be used to support criminal cases, cause scrutiny from government agencies, and prevent future employment.
Whether double tapping a photo on Instagram, writing a status on Facebook, or tweeting on Twitter users may never consider the thought of it being used to support criminal cases. In the essay “Facebook Is Using You,” author Lori Andrews argues that the use of “material mined online has been used against people battling for child custody or defending themselves in criminal cases.” She states that “Lexis Nexis has a product called Accurint for Law Enforcement, which gives government agents information about what people do on social networks.” There are companies put in place on social media to watch what users post on social networks. Users should be more aware that posting a picture at a bar or even posting a picture with an associate can land them in jail or can cause them to lose time with their child.
Users posting selfies with a relative or close friend may seem harmless but can be linked to serious cases and cause scrutiny from government agencies. In “Facebook Is Using You”, Andrews argues that users can be scrutinized by government agencies based on photos and post that confirm family relationships or weed out sham marriages. She states that “The International Revenue Service searches Facebook and Myspace for evidence of tax evaders income and where about as well as the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.” Users suddenly updating their relationship status can spark suspicion of a sham marriage. Users tagging relatives or close friends in photos and or status can be used in cases that involve tax evaders.
The use of social networks can prevent users from future employment. Users can be rejected as a candidate for a job or new position based on information posted on their profile. Andrews states that “Employers sometime decide whether to hire people based on their online profiles which indicate that 70 percent of recruiters and human resources professionals in the United States have rejected candidates.” Complaining in a status about previous or current jobs can affect user’s future employment showing lack of control. Posting photos with alcohol even if the user is 21 or older can send the wrong message to recruiters and prevent future employment. Photos and status posted on user’s profiles are what recruiters used to determine applicant’s employment.  
In the essay “Facebook Is Using You”, author Lori Andrews argues vigorously against the used of social media because it can be used to support criminal cases, cause scrutiny from government agencies, and prevent future employment. Material found online has been used in battling child custody and in criminal cases where users must defend themselves. Photos and post can be scrutinized by government agencies based on photos and post that confirm family relationships or weed out sham marriages. Being unware of the content posted on their profile users can prevent future employment. With social networks being used as an outlet for many users may never consider the influence it can have their personal lives. Users need to become more aware that their personal information is at risk by using social networks.
