Effects of domestic violence 

It i’s hard to believe a man who is so highly established in his community and so devoted to his religion could turn around and be a menace at home. Throughout the book Purple Hibiscus the narrator’s father was portrayed through a negative lightnegatively towards his family. In Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel the Purple Hibiscus it demonstrates the theme of dDomestic vViolence throughout the book.  After reading the Ppurple Hhibiscus it is seen thatthe author portrays Kambili's father withhas abusive tendencies. The book leaves you readers with the question “In what ways does the author use Papa in the Ppurple Hihibiscus to showcase religious mental and physical abuse?” Through the theme of domestic violence portrayed by the literary devices of repetition, Imageryforeshadow , and imagery the author brings to light toshows how the narration narrators father  Papa is abusive to  his wife and kids .
As the story beginsIn the purple Hibiscus, Adichie introduces we are introduced to the narrator, Kambili’s ’s family and highlights the relationship between her father and her family with the use of imagery.  with a launch of violence. “Things started to fall apart at home when my brother, Jaja, did not go to communion and Papa flung his heavy missal across the room and broke the figurines on the étagère”  (Adichie, 1).” (Adichie, 1) One of the very first strikes for Jaja (the narrator’s brother) was when he failed to keep up appearances at church. The narrator’s father keeps such a high value towards his religion and wants to make sure that his family is also on the same path. The book consistently shows endless examples of how religion was abused in the Adichie household. Adichie uses descriptive words like “Heavy missal” to outline how the jaja was miss treated “Later, at dinner, Papa said we would recite sixteen different novenas. For Mama’s forgiveness.” (Adichie, 35), This quote shows the unnecessary devotion Ppapa gives toward his religion. It is unreasonable to think that sixteen novenas would just wash away any sin committed. As shown above religious abuse is one of the many way papa portrays his affection towards his family. The author uses the literary device of repetition imagrey to portray how the narratorsPapa  father is repeatedly portrays the act of religioulys abuseive with the use so many adjectives.
Another type of abuse that was shown frequently in the book was physical abuseAdichie also uses imagery to showcase the severity of Papa’s abuse. Kambili was to be punished because he father felt as though she had sinned and not informed him. “He poured the hot water on my feet, slowly, as if he were conducting an experiment and wanted to see what would happen… The pain of contact was so pure, so scalding, I felt nothing for a second. And then I screamed.” (Adichie, 145 ) Kambili was to be punished because her father felt she had sinned and not informed him. Not only does this tie into Papas religious abuse behaviors but for a “sin” as small as this, or even discrepancy Papa has no right to burn his child. Adichie use adjectives such as “slowly” or “pure” to create a picture in the readers mind making sure that they truly understand the experience that the characters are going through. When going So, when we go in debt and analyzinge the text with imagery it’s not hard to see what pain and terrors the family has experienced and it is more than cruel. There are multiple examples of how Papa chooses to discipline his children which are painful in more ways than one and leave all type of lasting effects. 
Through imagery, Nothing good can come from being abuse and the author takes her time to platform this throughout the bookthere is a mental effect on the family, especially the mother that is portrayed in the book. The worst part is that abuse leaves a lasting effect. A mental effect. Which is slowly foreshadowed while reading “The Purple Hibiscus”.Adiche helps the reader picture how harshly the narrators mother was affected by the Papa’s abuse, it took such a toll on her , as the reader continues through the book signs on mental issues clearly start to stick out. Once a person has reached the stage of mental abuse at that point there really is no turning back because that it the hardest part to deal with. “Victimized people commonly develop emotional or psychological problems secondary to their abuse, including anxiety disorders and various forms of depression.” (Patricelli) The mother suffers the most from these effects of mental abuse. It reached a point as to where Papa would give her looks and she would know automatically follow his instructions no matter how tired or down she was feeling.  From this it i’s not hard to tell that the abuse that Ppapa initiated with his family went well beyond just the physicality and the pain. It effected the entire being. “She stared at the figurine pieces on the floor and then knelt and started to pick them up with her bare hands.” (Adichie, 4)  With this quote we see the aouthers use of words like bare, or figurine, which showcase a great amount of detail. This helps the Adichie to further her agenda of portraying imagery throughout the book and really help the reader relate to every situation in the book.this quote is taken for the very being of the book showing that this is not the mothers first time dealing with such behavior. From the beginning of the book it gives a preview about all the harm that the family encounters and that’s essentially the whole purpose of foreshadow.

When “The Ppurple Hhibiscus” is analyzed through the theme of domestic violence with the literary devices of repetition, foreshadow, and imagery, it stages a light on how charactersharters like the mother and children are not only aeffected, but also how they behave after dealing with an abusive male figure. Kambili’s family goes through a severe amount of domestic abuse like being hit or forced to act a certain way in public by Papa because of the power he felt he had. Being abused religiously physically and mental causes serious issues and ask shown it make relationship in this cases between family not only a touchy subject but also very hard to repair.When a family goes through such trials and obstacles it is hard to move forward.





	  



Works sited 

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus: a Novel. Fourth Estate, 2013.

Patricelli, Kathryn. “Effects Of Abuse.” Mental Help Effects of Abuse Comments, MentalHelp, 15 Dec. 2005, www.mentalhelp.net/articles/effects-of-abuse/.
