 
Equality really isn’t equal.

Once a person becomes the age of where they can conceptualize the idea of what it is to dream in that instance nothing is impossible. Unfortunately, they may never be able to realize the system is corrupt. In the film Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty? It is shown that not everyone has the same opportunity or chance to reach the upper-class. The poor most likely will never be able to realize their so called American dream for wealth regardless of how hard they try because the rich have more opportunities for success, more resources available to them, and more influence over the government.
One would think that everyone is presented with the same opportunities to reach the same level of success, but they would be wrong. To be successful one needs a good paying job. In order for that to happen a person would need a higher level of education. Taking a look at the statistics of the employment rate, it is shown that, 
For people with some college or an associate degree, the unemployment rate was 3.8 percent in January 2017... Among workers age 25 and older who graduated high school but did not attend college, the unemployment rate was 5.3 percent in January 2017... For workers with less than a high school diploma, the unemployment rate was 7.7 percent in January 2017. (The NCES Fast) 
After looking at the statistics, one can infer that chances only get slimmer for a high paying job with the less education someone has.  Sadly, better quality and higher levels of education are more expensive and less accessible to the lower class giving the upper class the upper hand showing that the opportunities for everyone are not really the same.

The ability to be successful is tied into the amount of resources provided to a person, so the odds tend to shift into a richer person’s favor. Due to different situations, not all are awarded the same resources. If a person is poor there are less resources available to them. For example, a limited amount of federal aid, like food stamps and EBT cards, are available to the lower class. In other words, there are too many people in need and not enough resources to go around. The upper class don’t have to worry about basic things like budgeting for grocery’s because they already have more than enough to stress over such things. The rich also have an endless supply dedicated to their selves making the life easier than the next were as the poor have to fight with others and prove themselves to take part in the resources provided by the government.

It is hard for anyone to move up from the lower class when all the control and influence over the government comes from the top one percent. In the assignment prompt it says that “The film talks about when a person reaches the top, they have power and influence over politics which keeps the odds in their favor. However, it is way harder for someone who grew up on the poor side to reach the top.” This could not be any truer. Through the way the government is set up bills have to be passed and laws need to be formed. The only way to push a bill is to pay for it. That’s where lobbyist come in, lobbyist have to searching for people who will fund their bill. Leading you to the top one percent. The top one percent is all about making business transactions, they are not just going to donate their money something has to come out of it. This is why the American people have carried interest. This means 
Carried interest is a share of any profits that the general partners of private equity and hedge funds receive as compensation, regardless of whether or not they contributed any initial funds. This method of compensation seeks to motivate the general partner (fund manager) to work toward improving the fund's performance.
People who can actually afford to pay taxes are paying way less than the average bus driver. Take the Koch brothers for example in the movie Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream—Why Poverty? “the Koch brothers spent an unprecedented amount on politics creating groups to further their own agenda”( Park Avenue ) the Koch brothers believed such things as private institutions and that government really should have that much a of a say in certain thing. The reason they are able to make such ideas actually come to pass (maybe not fully in the government but change a few things) is due to the fact that with there money they bring influence. 

The opposing side says that everyone has the same opportunities to be successful and everyone has the same amount of resources. Some would even say that the poor have more than enough and would want to cut the poor’s funding. 
President Trump plans to unveil on Tuesday a $4.1 trillion budget for 2018 that would cut deeply into programs for the poor, from health care and food stamps to student loans and disability payments, laying out an austere vision for reordering the nation’s priorities. (Trump’s Budget)
People like this feel as though handouts should not just be given out. They think that the poor are not striving hard enough and that the poor are just lazy.

The opposition however fails to see that even though a lot of money goes to funding such programs like Medicaid and food stamps, there is not nearly enough to meet the supply of people who still need help. According to the Census Bureau in 2012 
Approximately 52.2 million (or 21.3 percent) people in the U.S. participated in major means-tested government assistance programs each month in 2012, according to a U.S. Census Bureau report released today. Participation rates were highest for Medicaid (15.3 percent) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, formerly known as the food stamp program (13.4 percent). (Census Bureau)
This is number is way to big to think that all of the poor are just sitting around looking for handouts. A lot of these people have tried to get up and get a job but there are none available that meet there qualifications. Others have gone through terrible situations that leave them stuck.

So, it is sad to assume that the poor may never realize that the system is corrupt because the rich have more opportunity for success, more resources available than those at the bottom, and more influence over the government. But when the injustice is something that has been concealed so well, it leaves a person with a very small amount of hope for thinking that anything really is possible.

Annotated Bibliography

Bureau, US Census. “21.3% Of US Participates in Government Assistance Programs Each Month.” The United States Census Bureau, 28 May 2015, www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2015/cb15-97.html.
“Approximately 52.2 million (or 21.3 percent) people in the U.S. participated in major means-tested government assistance programs each month in 2012, according to a U.S. Census Bureau report released today. Participation rates were highest for Medicaid (15.3 percent) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, formerly known as the food stamp program (13.4 percent).”
This resource was added to the material to represent the statistics that support the rebuttals argument. They show how many people actually need government aid and are using. Which furthers the rebuttals point of there not being enough money for the people in need and that there is not a strong enough percentage of people in this demographic that would just be lazying around.


Davis, Julie Hirschfeld. “Trump’s Budget Cuts Deeply Into Medicaid and Anti-Poverty Efforts.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 May 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/05/22/us/politics/trump-budget-cuts.html.
“President Trump plans to unveil on Tuesday a $4.1 trillion budget for 2018 that would cut deeply into programs for the poor, from health care and food stamps to student loans and disability payments, laying out an austere vision for reordering the nation’s priorities.” (Trump’s Budget)
This resource was chosen to further the oppositions point of view. It show cases a person of power in the government trying to make cuts to things that is so desperately needed. Which is a good point for the opposition because someone who plays such a big role in politics and has a great deal of power would have good ideas.

Foster, Blair. Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream - Why Poverty? Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream - Why Poverty?, Youtube , 5 Jan. 2015, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So.
“the Koch brothers spent an unprecedented amount on politics creating groups to further their own agenda”
This video presents an overview of how not everyone necessarily has equal opportunities. People who start off rich ten to stay that way and because they are given the upper hand. Which comes with access to not only the finer things this but making sure that they get to keep what they have. This comes through having a hand in politics and the government. 

“Unemployment Rate 2.5 Percent for College Grads, 7.7 Percent for High School Dropouts, January 2017 : The Economics Daily.” U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2017/unemployment-rate-2-point-5-percent-for-college-grads-7-point-7-percent-for-high-school-dropouts-january-2017.htm.
 “For people with some college or an associate degree, the unemployment rate was 3.8 percent in January 2017... Among workers age 25 and older who graduated high school but did not attend college, the unemployment rate was 5.3 percent in January 2017... For workers with less than a high school diploma, the unemployment rate was 7.7 percent in January 2017.”
On this site it gives an estimation of the amount of people rely on different types of government assistance programs. Here it is also shown why it is necessary to keep these programs intact. Statistical evidence can be found on how long people stay on government assistance what types of assistance are available and so on.








Annotated Bibliography

Bureau, US Census. “21.3% Of US Participates in Government Assistance Programs Each Month.” The United States Census Bureau, 28 May 2015, www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2015/cb15-97.html.
“Approximately 52.2 million (or 21.3 percent) people in the U.S. participated in major means-tested government assistance programs each month in 2012, according to a U.S. Census Bureau report released today. Participation rates were highest for Medicaid (15.3 percent) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, formerly known as the food stamp program (13.4 percent).”
This resource was added to the material to represent the statistics that support the rebuttals argument. They show how many people actually need government aid and are using. Which furthers the rebuttals point of there not being enough money for the people in need and that there is not a strong enough percentage of people in this demographic that would just be lazying around.


Davis, Julie Hirschfeld. “Trump’s Budget Cuts Deeply Into Medicaid and Anti-Poverty Efforts.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 May 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/05/22/us/politics/trump-budget-cuts.html.
“President Trump plans to unveil on Tuesday a $4.1 trillion budget for 2018 that would cut deeply into programs for the poor, from health care and food stamps to student loans and disability payments, laying out an austere vision for reordering the nation’s priorities.” (Trump’s Budget)
This resource was chosen to further the oppositions point of view. It show cases a person of power in the government trying to make cuts to things that is so desperately needed. Which is a good point for the opposition because someone who plays such a big role in politics and has a great deal of power would have good ideas.
