Children of Science Fiction
        History has brought us countless works of science fiction that fantasize the ability to genetically manipulate our bodies, and the genetics of our children. However today’s technology has allowed us to traverse the realm of science fiction and for the first time, alter the very DNA that makes up our cells through a device called CRISPR. CRISPR can be used to cure genetic diseases but it could also be used to determine the hair color, gender, or possibly even the overall appearance of your child.This of course, has sparked a lot of debate of the ethics of using this technology with the general opinion being split between two sides. One being in support of the use of this technology and the benefits it can give to society while the other is strictly against it on the grounds that it has its disadvantages and is morally wrong. The situation is not that simple though. All of the people, scholars, and scientists taking sides in this debate are overlooking one fact. Genetic engineering is undoubtedly the future of the human race, and that what they should be focusing on is how to regulate it so that it does not get out of hand. The best way to do this is to keep the use of CRISPR within the realm of medicine. This means that it can be used to cure an unborn child of a genetic disease like cystic fibrosis or sickle cell anemia but would not be allowed to be used to ‘commercially’ for things like height or strength. These regulations would allow us to take advantage of genetic engineering without allowing those with more money to unfairly modify their children to be significantly better than others.
        This technology is just beginning to emerge and as a result carries a lot of misinformation about the benefits it can have once human use becomes a reality. Upon release CRISPR would be limited to editing the genetics of unborn children, called embryos, in order to ‘select’ the child we want. This notion leads some to be against the use of it, however many of the scientists in favor of CRISPR view this as a way to advance the human race to the next level. They see it as as a natural progression. Their view is that when presented with the decision of, “selecting a being that will have the best chance of having the best life and a different being that will not have the best chance of having the best life, it is morally obligatory to select the former”(Liao 4). S. Matthew Liao of Oxford University details this perfectionist view in a section of his article “Selecting Children: The Ethics of Reproductive Genetic Engineering”. He summarizes saying that the perfectionist view is all about choosing the embryo with the highest chance of  having a normal life. He uses the example of two possible children. One with no abnormalities and one with no birth abnormalities but had the chance of developing asthma in the future. Liao states that the obligatory action is to pick the former child, since he will have the most normal life. This mindset brings a plethora of benefits to the table concerning the future of humanity. Genetic diseases would eventually be wiped out and things like birth defects and inherited learning disabilities would no longer affect us. 
        The biggest problem lies in the potential for these opportunities to be abused. A conceivable example would be someone with a considerable amount of money and power taking the”best chance of for a normal life” concept one step further, and using CRISPR to give their child natural strength or intelligence. Jayashree Das of the Dayananda Sagar Department of Biochemistry says that given time, one could potentially design their child, “to be born with
certain additional features that would make it evolutionarily ‘advanced’ and better suited”(Das 1). She then goes on to talk about the possibilities of CRISPR in areas such as cancer research and its potential to fight and potentially cure it. She also discusses the ability to alter muscle mass and create potentially stronger, more fit, humans naturally. Das states that despite all of the possibilities for good, caution in its use is still needed(Das 4). This of course means regulation. The best way to regulate the use of CRISPR is to limit it by law to medical use and outlaw commercial use. The reason for such a defined line is because it wouldn’t be fair otherwise. Even with government compensation to people who might not be able to afford it, it would give those who are significantly better off an even bigger advantage than they already have since they will be able to afford better options than other. However, since the regulation only deals with commercial use, the medical benefits CRISPR has will still be able to be taken advantage of
        Even with this reasoning however there are some scholars who disagree with the use of CRISPR on humans altogether. In general the reasons largely have to do with the belief that its use is unethical. One might say that we as humans should not interfere with nature and alter the genetic construction of life. However, both of those points can be dismissed. We already interfere plenty with nature when you consider medication, surgery, even examples like building houses in what used to be a forest(Lucassen 3). The second counter point is more of a mindset than anything else. It is the kind that prevents humanity from progressing. People with a progressive mindset know that altering our genetics is just a natural progression into the future, and ultimately benefits humanity. One of the more robust counter arguments to genetic engineering is that the potential side effects are too great. However, with more fine tuning CRISPR will be ready for humans to use nation wide. This fear of side effects is just something that is natural to react with when new technology being developed. In fact, when considering all of the side effects we know about we find that, “there is no evidence that the risks involved in genetic engineering are any greater than the alternatives”(Lucassen 10). With this we can see that if the risks involved are not as great as one would think, then it leaves the benefits of CRISPR and technologies like it too great to be disregarded.
        Even though there is opposition to the field of genetic engineering, it is important to consider the big picture. In time genetic engineering will be an important part of the childbirth process, and will allow every child that is born a fair chance at life with nothing genetically holding them back. An idea that seems inconceivable now but is scientifically possible. The benefits do not stop there however. Genetic engineering can be used to fuel the ever growing need for food by creating drought resistant and weather resistant crops(Lucassen 11). The comparison of the rise of genetic engineering could be compared to the Luddites of the nineteenth century. They opposed the scientific breakthrough of automation and in a similar manner people will oppose the altering of genetics as well. One day the use of this technology could be commonplace in the world, and we will accept and grow accustom to this change just as we did in the industrial revolution. Students will read about how common downsyndrome used to be, or how you had to spray pesticides on crops to protect them instead of them being naturally immune. This is why it is important to support this technology. So that we can bring more good to everyone on the planet, and so that everyone will have the potential for an equal chance. That is the future I look forward to.        




Works Cited:
Das, Jayashree, et al. "Redesigning Nature: To Be or Not to Be?." Current Science (00113891), 
vol. 112, no. 7, 10 Apr. 2017, pp. 1346-1350. EBSCOhost, doi:10.18520/cs/v11
2/i07/1346-1350.
Liao, S. Matthew. “Selecting Children: The Ethics of Reproductive Genetic Engineering.” 
Wiley.com, University of Oxford, onlinelibrary.wiley.com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu
/doi/10.1111/j.1747-9991.2008.00174.x/epdf.
Lucassen, Emy. “The Ethics of Genetic Engineering.” Journal of Applied Philosophy, 13, pp. 
1–12., doi: http://www.jstor.org/stable/24354202.