Rhetorical Analysis
	In the text, “Excerpt: Letter To My Daughter” the author Maya Angelou starts off by stating facts about her childhood. She then discusses how she witnessed the oppression of black people in her town and how she was inspired by her experience of making her mother smile to be more of a charitable person. Angelou then goes on to describe the day she lost her virginity and became pregnant. Finally, she explains how helpful and understanding her parents were once they found out and ultimately how proud she felt (1-7). In each section of the text, Maya Angelou is sharing her insights as she is becoming older and wiser and learning more and more through her life experiences. Three kinds of context are being used by Angelou: historical, social, and cultural. In an article entitled, “Identity as adaptation to social, cultural, and historical context” the authors, Mark Muraven and Roy F. Baumeister, prove that the reason Angelou’s identity continually changes within each chapter of her life, was due to the different historical, social and cultural contexts that changed as well. Angelou’s use of tone, imagery, and rhetorical appeals all help the author get her point across to her audience.
	Social context is being developed within this excerpt and was seen the most out of the other three other contexts. In the beginning of the excerpt, Maya Angelou provides a few of examples of social context. The first example is when she stated simple facts such as, “Throughout the years I have lived in Paris, Cairo, West Africa, and all over the United States” (1). Through that statement she just gave the physical and social setting of where she grew up. All of these places have different social environments and will force an individual to interact with new people. Angelou goes on to talk about how a child who lives in the southwest would think open skies and deserts are normal. While another child who lives in New York with skyscrapers and millions of people believes that to be natural. The children who live in these places cannot choose or control whether they want to live there, so it does not matter to them. However, once they grow up they will eventually make that place their home or move on to another region, and realize they enjoy that environment better. Angelou put this in her writing to show that where an individual is born and grows up, becomes a part of them that cannot be taken away from their memory. She also speaks about the differences between her grandma from Arkansas and her mother from California and how she did not believe that she belonged in California. These differences are used to show the audience just how different she was from her mother, who would listen to loud blues music on the radio rather than listening to religious music or the news.  In the article, “Social Cohesion in Students Threaded Discussions: A Rhetorical Analysis” the author Donald Weasenforth introduces a graph (adapted from Garrison, Anderson, and Archer 2001). Maya Angelou uses self disclosure throughout her writing, which is a big part of social context, since it gives the reader the author's experiences from where she lived and how certain things developed like her getting pregnant after losing her virginity. She shared the experience about getting pregnant after losing her virginity so that her audience would feel empathy for her and be able to relate to her because they had to go through the same thing or a friend had a similar experience.
	Historical context in Maya Angelou's article is very vital to understanding her childhood. In the first part of the text, called “Home” Angelou discusses how the people she looked up to when she was a child, were all seen as inferior to the whites. Even white children could be disrespectful to adult black people and get away with it (1). This shows that Angelou must have had an extremely hard childhood since she was at the bottom of the totem poll. She put this in her writing in order to let people know how much racism was happening during her childhood and how much it affected her. Racial tension was high in the 1940s, especially in the south, where Angelou grew up. Adolescence is the time when an individual develops their identity (Baumeister & Muraven 7). She used her identity to explain how she had to struggle as a way to appeal to the reader's emotions or pathos. 
	Cultural context refers to the traditions and values that mold an individual's beliefs. In the text, Angelou states, “Without knowing why exactly, I did not believe that I was inferior to anyone except maybe my brother. I knew I was smart, but I also knew that Bailey was smarter, maybe because he reminded me often and even suggested that maybe he was the smartest person in the world. He came to that decision when he was nine years old” (Angelou 2). Her brother telling her this, influenced Angelou to believe that she not as smart as he was. However, she does say in the beginning that she did not believe that she was inferior to anyone (2). This shows that children are taught this and are not born that way. Racism is a prime example of this because children are not born hating another person simply because of the color of their skin. Children are taught to be racist by their parents and that is exactly what Maya Angelou was attempting to convey when she saw little white children that were still acting as if they were far more superior than the black adults. Those children behaved that way because they were taught that it was okay. The cultural context exposed that level of racism that unfortunately, used to and in some cases, still exists. 
	Pathos and logos were the main rhetorical appeals used throughout Angelou’s writing. Logos appeals to the reader’s logical side and persuades by using reason. One piece of evidence of her using logos was when she stated, “People from everywhere, speaking every known language had come to town to watch the end and the beginning of the world” (Angelou 4). The logic or reasoning behind this is due to the fact that all of these vehicles are creating pollution, which is the end of the world; because eventually the climate will change and cause the polar ice caps to melt as a result of depletion of the ozone layer from burning fuel. However, it is also the beginning of the world because we are innovating and making life easier and better for people everywhere. The main reason she included this in her writing was because of all of the new inventions coming out and the fear of World War II. Many people believed that was going to be the end of the world because of the creation of nuclear bombs. This helped her set up her topic in the revelations part of her excerpt. The other rhetorical appeal used by Maya Angelou was pathos. Pathos persuades by evoking positive and or negative emotion from the reader, from the author. Angelou heavily relies on pathos throughout the excerpt. An example of Angelou using this appeal is when she explains how her voice is becoming deep and how her naked body will not ever become curvy or feminine (4). This sentence makes the reader feel empathy for her and maybe even helps some of the audience relate to Maya Angelou as well. Her emotional appeals help her audience feel connected to the words as they are being read. Also when Angelou writes about her mother asking her to smile for her or when she described the way she lost her virginity to that random boy who did not even say goodbye after. These all touch the audience's emotions and make them understand and  feel connected with her more. Ethos, on the other hand, refers to elements of an argument that appeals to an audiences ethics or credibility. I could not find too much ethos included in her paper which was surprising. Writer’s really should use all three rhetorical appeals in order to be completely and persuasively effective in writing. With that being said, it could be argued that this is the one weak point in her writing .
Maya Angelou is writing to groups of people all across the world. However, it could be argued that a young female audience would especially benefit from reading this piece. Throughout the excerpt, Angelou mentioned experiences that a female audience could easily relate to such as the lost of her virginity and becoming pregnant at a young age. Angelou appeals to her audience by telling the pregnancy story which a lot of teens can relate to in today’s world. She also relates to both young women and their parents when she shares the conversation that took place between she and both of her own parents. Angelou shared her fears about revealing the truth about her pregnancy to her parents which showed that she herself was still a child, who would soon be responsible for bringing another child into this world. One other demographic Maya Angelou relates to are African Americans or anyone who has faced adversity in their life. Unfortunately, there are many who are still experiencing racism in the United States today. One would think that 80 years later this would no longer be an issue, but it is still affecting many men, women and children in today’s world. Perhaps this excerpt could give them hope for the future. Angelou’s purposefully describes the world she grew up in with diction like submission and surrender. These words are powerful because they describe how she felt emotionally which will relate to her audience because they most likely have felt the same way.
Maya Angelou uses quite a bit of figurative language to help portray the picture that she is trying to get across to the reader. She tells her story of how African American grown ups were turned into “Psychological dwarfs” by poor white kids who were disrespectful to them. In other words, the white children would treat the adult African Americans like they were below them and that they were uneducated idiots. Angelou used that phrase to emphasize how badly they were treated by the white people in her town. Another piece of figurative language is when she is referred to as her grandmother's shadow. She used the term “shadow” because that is what her grandmother's friends would call her each time that they would talk to her. Shadow in this context is a metaphor that means she is always copying or imitating her grandmother no matter what she does. One last piece of evidence is, “Private cars, taxis, buses, surface trains, trucks, delivery vans, cement mixers, delivery carts, bicycles, and skates occupied the air with honks, toots, roars, thuds, screams, and whistles, until the very air seemed thick and lumpy like bad gravy” (4). Air obviously is not thick and lumpy like bad gravy. This is a simile for the air being polluted by toxic fumes coming from the cars, buses, and trains. The figurative language used in this paper helps keep the reader engaged and helps the reader create a picture in their head of what the message that Maya Angelou is conveying.
The tone of Maya Angelou’s excerpt is mostly serious, although she does use humor at times as well. However, when she speaks about her son and her mom being supportive after finding out about her being pregnant you feel a sense of relief and peace in her writing. In contrast, while Angelou wrote about her childhood in Stamps, Arkansas she seemed to be accusatory of white people for what they did to the people of her race in her town. Maya Angelou must switch up the tone so that the reader does not get bored while reading the long excerpt. Also, changing the tone can help the author to convey how she feels about what she is writing since one can not hear the way she is speaking through text. 
Maya Angelou wrote to teach her audience to learn from her life story and maybe feel comforted that someone else has gone through these tough times as well. She used multiple different rhetorical strategies while writing this paper to get her point across. In the beginning, she used the three kinds of contexts which are historical, cultural, and social. She then used pathos and logos to connect with her specific audience. Angelou also focused on using some figurative language which helped keep her writing descriptive and colorful. Finally, she uses tone to depict how she feels about what she is writing and create a mood for the reader. Combined, all of these rhetorical strategies helped Maya Angelou write and persuade her audience of her argument without the reader ever knowing. 
















Works Cited
Baumeister, Roy F, and Mark Muraven. “Identity as Adaptation to Social, Cultural, and 
Historical Context.” Journal of Adolescence, Academic Press, 19 Apr. 2002,www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140197196900391
Signature. “Excerpt: ‘Letter to My Daughter’ by Maya Angelou.” Signature Reads, 
Penguin Random House, 1 Jan. 2012, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/.
Williams, Scott, and Donald Weasenforth. “Social Cohesion in Students' Threaded Discussions: 
A Rhetorical Analysis.” Socallt 05': The Year of Languages: Motivating the Language Learner with Technology, edited by Ute S Lahaie, www.books.google.com.
