
Maya Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter”: How She Persuaded the Audience 
	People face many challenges and difficult paths in their lives whether is living condition, society issues, racial discrimination, financial problems, or being a mother very young. In Maya Angelou’s life, she had a child when African-Americans were highly discriminated and had little to no civil rights. She creates a bond with her audience, especially unready young mothers who have their first child too soon. They may feel a sense of regret or it may just make the woman’s life miserable. In Letter to My Daughter, Maya Angelou describes the challenging times she faced growing up as an African American mother in the early 1900’s and civil rights era. Maya Angelou can connect to her audience by using persuasion to motivate other individuals especially young mothers. In Maya Angelou’s essay, she connects to her audience by using her own personal experience, pathos, ethos, and historical settings to set the tone to help her audience understand her. These rhetorical tools helped shape her essay to become a powerful message ready to be unveiled into a deeper context. 
Usually, for any writer, it is an unprofessional technique to use personal experience to persuade an audience, but in Angelou’s case, it is fine because the essay is about her. Maya Angelou uses her personal experience as a rhetorical tool to connect to the audience. The author uses Pathos and Ethos approach to persuade her audience throughout her essay. To understand how Maya Angelou persuaded her audience, the first objective is to understand the meaning of Pathos and Ethos.  In an article “The Roots of Research in (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos and Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications,” by Ülkü D. Demirdogen mentions the three basic elements to persuade an audience successfully and how a reader needs to catch it anytime a writer uses it in their writing. The three elements are called Pathos, Logos, and Ethos, but the focus will be on two out of the three.  Ethos refers to the character the speaker wishes to present and it most defined as the credibility of the speaker. Ethos was the first element of persuasion in Aristotle's theory (Demirdogen 191). In other words, a reader needs to question to whom is the writer addressing to and what credibility do they present to make a statement of fact or a claim that they believe in. An English professor can’t simply make a scientific statement on how cancer cells spread because their area of study is not focused on science. The other element is Pathos. Pathos is defined as the mood or tone of the speech that appeals to the passion or the will of the audience (Demirodogen 192). Pathos is used to persuade an audience by attacking their emotions to feel empathy or give the writer the ultimate attention Writers use pathos to make the reader feel a connection to what the writer has to address. These elements are some that were used throughout Angelou’s essay to persuade her audience successfully.
Angelou uses pathos appeals by using her life story about her struggle as a young girl. In the text “My real growing up world, in Stamps, was a continual struggle against a condition of surrender. Surrender first to the grown human beings who I saw every day, all black and all very large. Then submission to the idea that black people were inferior to white people, who I saw rarely.” (Angelou 1). She states what she had to go through as a young girl that had to live with the idea that she was inferior to white people. That statement can have an emotional appeal that can affect any reader. Her statement of her childhood gives us a sense that she deserves empathy for what she had gone through in her life. She was born in the 1920’s and grew up in Arkansas which is evident that she grew up in a place where African-American were highly discriminated and were treated like savages. In the article “Madness with a Past: An overview of Race Violence in Arkansas History” by Tom W. Dillard describes many challenges African Americans faced in Arkansas and many other states in the United States after the Civil War which granted them freedom from their slave owners to life in early 1900’s. Dillard argues that the disfranchisement of black citizens led to more violence. Whites started to spread to urban areas where black people resided to scare them out of their homes. There was evidence that there were warning notes posted in the front gates of African American homes warning them that violence will be an action taken if they didn’t move out. The Arkansas Gazette accounts noted that many black families were forced out of their homes and that there were as few as 10 blacks in a town in Arkansas (Dillard). I believe that Dillard’s argument supports Angelou’s statement of struggling under the “condition of surrender,” because she lived in Arkansas at an early age and she might’ve experienced being discriminated all the time growing up. She used Pathos appeals to her “condition of surrender” to get the audience to feel some sort of sympathy for what she went through as a young African American. My own view is that Angelou used her personal life to shape an image of the era she had grown up in. Although Angelou does not say so directly, she wants her audience to know that she faced the hardest challenges in her life at an early age and I believe this can show strength and courage to go in-depth into her personal life to make her argument. Personal experience is a clever way to set the stage to the main argument and keep the reader’s attention, but it shouldn’t always be used. There are occasions when they are fine like Maya Angelou’s life story.
Besides the Pathos approach, another useful way to persuade an audience is to be credible for any arguments made. An author can give evidence or can be credible because of their individual experiences to successfully persuade an audience. In Maya Angelou’s essay, she uses Ethos appeal using her own life experience as credibility to describe a time in history that she was a part of, so her own testimony is valid. She used Ethos appeals well in the statement to why she had struggled with the condition of surrender and the descriptions she made throughout her essay, but a reader should never automatically believe a writer based on their personal credibility. The reason for that is because a writer may be credible for any argument they make, but sometimes they may be biased or don’t tell the story as it is. The evidence from Tom Willard’s article on race violence in Arkansas during that time backed up her claim and had may similar arguments as to what Angelou made in her essay about her life. Maya Angelou goes on to talk about having a child at a youthful age and how guilty she felt at the beginning but learned to cherish what became her biggest blessing. Life as an African-American woman can be very difficult especially in the early 1920’s up to the Civil Rights era. It was difficult enough to survive during that time with little to no opportunities to succeed and bring money to the table for a family. Maya Angelou had one child and she reminds us “I never had to spend one-minute regretting giving birth to a child who had a devoted family led by a fearless, doting, and glorious grandmother. So, I became proud of myself” (Angelou 7). The text is about being a parent and having the support of her parents as a young mother. Her mother was her motivation because she was “fearless, doting and glorious” which was something she felt motivated by so she was proud of herself even if she had a child in her teenage years. From this statement, I can say that her intended audience is young women that need some motivation as a young mother. The application of ethos in this statement is that she was a mother herself and had no regret of having a child. She has the credibility of being a mother which can create a bond with the readers if they fall into the category of being a young mother or soon to be a mother. I believe she wrote this to show her audience that she is credible to make a statement that she was a mother herself and could survive in a time of injustice and inequality as a teenager. She also uses pathos appeals in the statement saying that she was proud of herself for having a child. Many young women that have children too early don’t always feel too proud of themselves for having a child. Maya Angelou uses pathos to appeal to show strength and confidence as a woman, that many young mothers need to feel uplifting being a young mother.
While her persuasion is strong and appeals her audience positively, I don’t believe every woman is lucky enough to have parent’s support and live proudly of having a child like Maya Angelou did. She shows bias by stating only the positive outcomes of being a young mother and fails to also get real with the audience. That is, stating the negative consequences of being a teenage mother because her goal was to persuade her audience. She doesn’t state any negative outcomes in her experience, it almost seemed like a fantasy life. I did some research on teen pregnancy among African-American teenagers in the U.S. and the reality of being a young mother that Maya Angelou didn’t address. Yes, her goal is to give motivation to women to be strong individuals, but the counterarguments should be presented as well. Being a young mother may not always feel like a blessing, so Maya Angelou could’ve incorporated some negative consequences to make her intended audience more confident that even with negative outcomes everything can be fine.  An article of teen pregnancy called “African-American Adolescent Females in the Southeastern United States: Associations Among Risk Factors for Teen Pregnancy” by Alyssa E. Killebrew, Michelle L. Smith, Robert M. Nevels, Nichole H. Weiss and Samuel T. Gontkovsky came to argue that there are many negative outcomes of being a young mother. One of the main negative outcomes is the emotional risk in pregnant teenagers can cause an increased risk of health complications that can negatively affect the teen mother’s feelings about herself and could potentially lead to depression (Alyssa E. Killebrew, Michelle L. Smith, Robert M. Nevels, Nichole H. Weiss, Samuel T 66). In the article, it also states that research findings suggest that parent-child closeness or connectedness, high parental supervision or regulation of children’s activities, and parents’ values against teen sex decrease the risk of teen pregnancy. Conversely, negative influences could be either peers or family members who encourage, participate in, or fail to address negative risky behavior with the female teenager (e.g., risky sexual behavior and/or substance abuse). Typically, teens that come from poor, uneducated, single-parent families and teens whose mother or sisters gave birth as a teen are more likely to become pregnant during their teenage years (Killebrew, Smith, Nevels, Weiss, Gontkovsky 68).  In Angelou’s statement, she stated that the child had a family and a grandmother to be by their side as a young teen becomes a mother. This tells us that Maya’s mother wasn’t always there for her to be her parent which led to her teen pregnancy. From the findings, I can conclude that Angelou was one-sided on being pregnant as a young adolescent because she had all the love and support from her parents, something not all young women have. In the article, it continues to argue more negative outcomes associated with teen pregnancy, such as poverty a risk factor in studies that conclude that adolescent females living in poverty are at a heightened risk of teen pregnancy. Also, teen pregnancy can lead to welfare dependency and low-paying jobs which is a lot of pressure put onto a young woman’s hands and a lot of teen moms are most likely to drop out of school then require long-term financial support (Killebrew, Smith, Nevels, Weiss Gontkovsky 68-69). That is something Maya Angelou fails to mention that to her audience. I understand what she wanted to do is to prove to her audience that being a teenage mother is fine and wanted women to feel proud of themselves, but her essay was one-sided. She failed to mention the actual struggle of being a teenage mom. She could've added at some negative outcomes of being a young mother but she showed her bias by making her arguments seem like a fantasy life with no negative outcomes. 
Writers will always find a way to persuade an audience. The audience may not always agree with the writer, but it gives a better understanding of the writer’s arguments and can open minds of others with different opinions.  Maya Angelou has given motivation to many individuals throughout her career, coming to University to motivate students and taking a stand to social issues. As a writer, she has the ultimate skills to persuade an audience, but a reader needs to think how she persuades her so well. She used Pathos and Ethos well to connect to her audience and uses her personal experience to create an image of herself. Researchers created tools to help readers understand the tools the writer uses to persuade them successfully.  Maya Angelou’s essay from Letter to My Daughter shows how a writer can use rhetorical tools to get their arguments across with an objective to get the intended audience to agree with them.






Works Cited
Angelou, Maya January. “Excerpt: "Letter to My Daughter" by Maya Angelou.” Signature         Reads, 1 Jan. 2012, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost. Accessed 19 Sept. 2017.
Demirdogen, Ülkü D. “The Roots of Research in (Political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications.” International Journal of Social Inquiry, vol. 3, no. 1, 2010, pp. 189–201.
Dillard, Tom W. “Madness with a Past: An Overview of Race Violence in Arkansas History.” A Journal of Delta Studies, vol. 32, no. 2, Aug. 2001. Academic Search Complete, EBSCOhost, Accessed 19 Sept. 2017.
Killebrew, Alyssa E., et al. “African-American Adolescent Females in the Southeastern United States: Associations Among Risk Factors for Teen Pregnancy.” Journal of Child and Adolescent Substance Abuse, Routledge Taylor and Francis Group, 1 Mar. 2014. Accessed 19 Sept. 2017.
