In the novel “Purple Hibiscus”, by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie there were pivotal events that resonated with me. An event that resonated with me was after the Adichie family attended Mass and Papa questioned Jaja about not taking communion. This event resonated with me because it was the first event in the novel that showed each family members characteristics. Jaja was portrayed as rebellious because of how he talked back to Papa during the argument about him not taking communion. Papa is portrayed as passive aggressive because he does not verbally react but physically reacts to Jaja disrespect by throwing the missal in his direction but misses him completely. Kambili was portrayed as passive but inquisitive because she questioned Jaja being rebellious and disrespecting Papa in her mind but did not say anything to show her disagreement. Mama was portrayed as passive and submissive because during the argument between Jaja and Papa she did not intervene to support or refute either side and when the missal damaged the figurines she polished often she did not show any emotion and cleaned it up. The reveal of the family’s characteristics was a pivotal event because it gave insight on what to expect from each family member throughout the novel.  
Another pivotal event that resonated with me in the novel “Purple Hibiscus” was the introduction of Aunty Ifeoma. The introduction of Aunty Ifeoma was a pivotal event because she brought light into the Adichie family’s home. Her character was fearless and said what everyone else wanted to say but could not. In a way I think Aunty Ifeoma was an advocate for Mama, Jaja, and Kambili if it was not for her convincing Papa (her brother) to let Jaja and Kambili visit they would have never spent time with their cousins, met Father Amadi, or spent time with Papa Nnukwu before he died. If it was not for Aunty Ifeoma, Mama would not have had the courage to ask Papa to send Aunty Ifeoma the gas cylinders she needed for cooking. Also, if it was not for Aunty Ifeoma, Kambili would have had to go straight home after leaving the hospital after Papa had beaten her but she convinced Papa to let her and Jaja visit for Easter creating an opportunity for Mama to make an escape as well. Aunty Ifeoma introduction to the novel played a pivotal part in saving the lives of Mama, Jaja, and Kambili.
