Dear Dr. Smith,
 Some people say the success means to make a lot of money and be famous for something. My idea of success is to get a stable job and live simply. My steps to reach this goal include getting my college degree, then my graduate degree, get a job, and lastly buy a house. I first need to be successful in school to be successful in life. Doing what it takes to be successful in college is very important to me. The Biology: Pre-med track is hard work, so I will need to have a lot of persistence to succeed.
	People who are persistent show interest in something for long periods of time (Council of Writing Program Administrators et.al, 5). Throughout my years here in college, I will be given many assignments, have meetings, and overall be stretched thin. However, my drive will push me further towards my goal of getting a degree and a job. I will also take responsibility in my actions and choices. In my sophomore year, I took and AP European History course. This course was hard for me because I was not used to the teacher’s style. It was also a lot of information and homework each day. The class was very overwhelming, but I persisted and I passed the class by the skin of my teeth. 
A life lesson I was always taught was everyone must be a responsible adult.  Being a responsible adult means owning up to anything good, or bad, one might do (Council of Writing Program Administrators et.al, 5). This also includes accepting any punishment or reward. When in college, and for the rest of my life, I know that I must be responsible for myself.  If I do anything bad, I know the consequences include getting a bad grade or getting fired. I know that if I do anything good, I could be rewarded with a good grade or a job promotion. My parents care a lot about grades, so they reward us when we do well. If we got Honor Roll, or Distinguished Honor Roll, we were rewarded with pocket money. If we got a C in a class, and we were capable of an A or B, we lost privileges. Either way we were responsible for getting those grades up, and we got what we deserved. 
Engagement is another skill I will learn to succeed in college, education, and in the work force. To be engaged in something means to be invested in the topic or activity (Council of Writing Program Administrators et.al, 5). In my experience, I am not successful in topics that seem boring to me. I was successful in English because it is a topic I am interested in. I am not successful in math, partly because I do not find it interesting. To succeed in college, I must take steps to remember things that I learn.
In Learning (Your First Job), by Robert Leamson he talks two aspects of learning. One is understanding, which most seem to do fine. The other is remembering, which can cause people to struggle (2). One must recreate memories to truly know the subject. In the past, I could effective do this by reviewing notes and using flash cards. I understand that now in college I must do more. I already have plans to go to some tutoring sessions for an exam I have next week. Leamson also makes a point to talk about time management. He does not believe in the expression “running out of time” because everyone has the same amount of time(Leamson,5). I will only be successful if I choose to do the right things with my time, like studying or reading papers. What I choose to do with my time could make or break my grade in my class. I have stayed up late nights writing papers and studying for tests. It is not fun and I am miserable the next day. 
One of the course goals in your syllabus talks about is to be able to write different papers for different reasons (Course Syllabus,1). I think that this will be a good skill to learn. This is because other classes in college may require me to be proficient in all types and styles of essay writing. The same could be said for my career and life. Depending on the job I get, I might need to type up many different types of documents to be successful. 
All in all, I am looking forward to what this class has to teach me. I think that as long as I am persistent, responsible, and engaged I think I will do well in this class, as well as in life.

Sincerely,
Sam Doe












Works Cited

“Foundations of Writing Syllabus.” http://removed-this-url.com/. Accessed 14 
	September 2017.

Leamnson, Robert.  “Learning Your First Job.” Center for Teaching and Learning at the University of
 Georgia, www.ctl.uga.edu/pages/learning-your-first-job. Accessed 14 September 2017.

Council of Writing Program Administrators, National Council of Teachers of English, and the National 
	Writing Project. “Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing.” Council of Writing Program 
	Administrators, 11 Jan. 2011, wpacouncil.org/framework. Accessed 11 September 2017.
