Progress of Slavery and Racial Equality
	The Fourth of July is a time of celebration of independence for all Americans, but independence from what exactly? We were all taught that it was independence from Great Britain, so we could live in freedom. However, once people began coming from other countries, or should I say “imported,” this day held no value for those people. For enslaved African Americans, they stood around on the fourth of July and were expected to watch White people celebrate their absolute freedom, while they themselves had little to none. African Americans came to the United States with bondage to slavery and no freedom; however, they very gradually gained a reason to celebrate on this for their own independence. 
	Before the emancipation proclamation, African Americans had no reason to celebrate independence day because they were bound to their master’s every word. They were still being treated as property rather than humans. Frederick Douglass gave a speech entitled, “What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?,” which was presented on July 5, 1852. His main idea in this speech revolved around the idea that this independence day was not for African Americans rather for the white people. His speech can be summarized through this quote he said, “I say it with a sad disparity between us. I am not included within the pale of glorious anniversary. Your high independence only reveals the immeasurable distance between us. The blessings in which you, this day, rejoice, are not enjoyed in common.”  Douglass goes on to express what the white people celebrate that he cannot celebrate with them. However, there is a light at the end of his tunnel because he says that, “the doom of slavery is certain” (Douglass 321-323). Fredrick Douglass foreshadows the change in how African Americans view the day of Fourth of July. 
	After the Emancipation Proclamation, there is a gradual increase in awareness of the past of slavery. The Freed Slave is a sculpture by Francesco Pezzicar that he made in 1876 to be displayed in the Centennial Exposition. In the exposition, the ideas of the Civil War and Reconstruction were basically skipped over, except this piece bringing back those themes (Miranda 330). This sculpture shows the progress of African Americans independence because this was a made as a memorial of the Freeing of slaves by the Emancipation Proclamation. This was the light that Fredrick Douglass saw at the end of the tunnel of slavery that he spoke about in 1852. 
	In the 1890s, life as an African American was still one of segregation, but it was also one of independence. Mamie Garvin Fields published Lemon Swamp and Other Places: A Carolina Memoir, which provided insight to what happened on the Fourth of July for African Americans in the post-Reconstruction period in the South. In this memoir, she described how an upper class neighborhood would give them the area for the day, so they could hold a special picnic filled with food, dancing, singing, and reciting of important documents that contributed to their freedom, such as the Emancipation Proclamation (Fields 321-323). Through this memoir, the end result of the progress of how African Americans celebrated the fourth of July can be seen. 
	A day that used to be nothing but a reminder of their bondage became a day of celebration for their own independence for African Americans. Before the Emancipation Proclamation, the fourth of July was just a day that put African Americans in their place a little more than most days. However, as the years progressed so did their reason to celebrate. The African Americans went from giving protests on Independence day to having picnics. 


Works Cited
Douglass, Frederick. “What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?” Going to the Source: The Bedford Reader in American History, Fourth ed., vol. 1, (321-323). Boston: Bedford/ St. Martin’s, 2016. 
Fields, Mamie G. “Excerpt From Lemon Swamp and Other Places: A Carolina Memoir [of the 1890s].” Going to the Source: The Bedford Reader in American History, Fourth ed., vol. 1, (321-323). Boston: Bedford/ St. Martin’s, 2016. 
Miranda, Fernando. “The Freed Slave in Memorial Hall.” Going to the Source: The Bedford Reader in American History, Fourth ed., vol. 1, (330). Boston: Bedford/ St. Martin’s, 2016.
