The Role of Nature

Often, in novels, authors use aspects of nature to convey a message that readers can identify with. Authors convey messages that are identifiable to give the reader insight into the text. In the novel “Purple Hibiscus”, author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie uses nature to describe the characters and settings. Nature plays a significant role in conveying the overall purpose of the novel. The role nature plays in the novel is to illustrate a character’s defiant personality, to help the reader visualize the setting, and to demonstrates the character’s evolution. 
Jaja’s defiance is illustrated throughout the novel “Purple Hibiscus”, to convey the roll that nature plays describing his personality. Jaja’s defiant personality is compared to the purple hibiscus flower. “Jaja’s defiance seemed to me now like Aunty Ifeoma’s experimental purple hibiscus: rare, fragrant with undertones of freedom, a different kind of freedom from the one the crowds waving green leaves chanted at Government Square after the coup.” (Adichie 16). Being raised in a structured home and speaking out against how it is being ran is rare for Jaja and shocking to his family. Jaja not taking communion on Palm Sunday which was something that his family does during Mass, was rare (Adichie 6). Speaking out against the structure of Jaja’s home gives him a new fresh and fragrant feeling, which is leads to a new developing freedom he finds.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie uses aspects of nature to help the reader visualize the setting. The role that nature plays in the novel is helping the reader visualize the setting of the Adichie home on Palm Sunday. 
“Howling winds came with an angry rain, uprooting frangipani trees in the front yards. They lay on the lawn, their pink and white flowers grazing the grass, their roots waving lumpy soil in the air. The satellite dish on top of the garage came crashing down, and lounged on the driveway like a visiting alien spaceship. The door of my wardrobe dislodged completely. Sisi broke a full set of Mama’s china” (Adichie 257).
	On Palm Sunday in the Adichie home the weather outside reflected the events that occurred inside the home. The “howling winds” not only brought down the satellite dish outside the house, but it also brought down the structure and tradition that once was in the Adichie home such as, Mama not whispering when telling Sisi to wipe the pieces of broken figurine and not sneaking Jaja’s food to his room (Adichie 257-258).
	The character’s in “Purple Hibiscus” demonstrate evolution through the role that nature plays in the novel. The events that occurred in the Adichie family such as the Jaja and Kambili visiting Nsukka (Adichie 108) and Papa dying (Adichie 286-287) have reflections of nature that follow them.
” Being able to identify the different indicators associated with nature connection is also a good starting point for developing a theoretical account of the pathways to connectedness. Nature connection is subjective, formed through individual experiences, making the development of a theoretical account of the pathways potentially problematic…” (Beyond knowing nature: Contacting, emotion, compassion, meaning, and beauty are pathways to nature connect. Lumber R, Richardson M, Sheffield D).
	The quote reflects Adichie’s uses of the role of nature to demonstrate the evolution of characters in the novel by connecting her own interpretations. She used nature because it was something she was familiar with bases on ability recall and connect her own experiences and with nature as well.
	Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie uses the novel “Purple Hibiscus”, to give insight into her interpretation of the use of nature to identify with readers. The role that nature plays in the novel shows a shaping effect of how personal experiences can be perceived. Throughout “Purple Hibiscus”, aspects of nature are connected to personality to help visualize the evolution of characters. The identifiable aspect used to connect the author and the reader reflects the authors purpose to entertain. Adichie’s “Purple Hibiscus”, send the reader on an emotional roller-coaster leaving them reader wanting more an enjoyable read with sympathetic elements.

	
	
	




Cited Works:
Adichie, Ngozi Chimamanda. Purple Hibiscus. New York: Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2012. Print.
Lumber R, Richardson M, Sheffield D (2017) Beyond knowing nature: Contact, emotion, compassion, meaning, and beauty are pathways to nature connection. PLoS ONE12(5): e0177186.
