
Kambili’s Growth
Growing up in a controlling household molds your actions and mannerisms that will follow you for the rest of your life. Those who grow up being abused usually tend to be timid, anxious and emotionally unavailable. Kambili embodies the abused persona. She is reserved when met with new experiences, disgruntled when her schedule is thrown out of wack and turns mute when addressing anyone besides immediate family. As the novel progresses, Kambili begins to find her own identity and ideas outside of her father’s control. Through out the novel Kambili slowly begins to be more confident,  form her own views on her grandfather, and say what has been on her mind openly without repercussions that she previously had to endure when her father was alive.
Kambili is very aware of how different she is compared to the other Nigerian girls early on in the novel. Due to her family’s rich lifestyle compared to the others, she was almost out on a pedestal although she often felt inferior to her peers. She was often jealous of how outspoken they were and how easily they could hold conversations, while she could barely form a sentence without shutting down. After meeting Father Amadi, Kambili begins to open up. She develops a sort of infatuation with Father Amadi and opens up to him quickly. She openly tells him that she loves him although she knows that they could never be anything due to their religion (Adichie 280). This is a step that the timid and reserved Kambili that we met in the beginning of the book would have never taken.
Very early in the novel it is made clear who is boss in Kambili’s household. Papa has a strict schedule that Kambili and Jaja must follow (Adichie 22), and is openly abusive, often leaving Mama with black eyes (Adichie 11) and a destroyed household. Papa’s destructive behavior conditioned the other family members to walk on eggshells, unsure of what to say next or what to do without upsetting Papa, they’re home became very similar to a prison instead of a place of comfort. This was very essential to Kambili’s development into muteness. It wasn’t until she was humiliated by Amaka in front of Aunty Ifeoma (Adichie 170) that she began to actually speak up for herself. 
Papa’s relationship with his own father Papa Nnukwu was an important factor in Kambili’s personality development. Papa kept Kambili and Jaja away from their grandfather, labeling him a “heathen” (Adichie 62). The children were only allowed to see him for fifteen minutes every Christmas and were forbidden from eating or drinking from anything in his house. Subsequently, this led Kambili to develop this idea that her grandfather was dangerous or strange in some way. After witnessing Papa Nnukwu’s relationship with Aunty Ifeoma’s children, she began to wonder why they did not seen him in the negative light that she had become accustomed to. After witnessing just how Papa Nnukwu worships , Kambili begins to relate to him, something that would have never been thought of in the beginning of the noel when she was still very close minded and thinking along with Papa’s own values instead of her own.
When placed in a box where she could not express her self, Kambili was forced to be reserved and left with no identity. After escaping her fathers tight grasp and venturing out on her own, she was able to find her true self. Her own experiences with her grandfather allowed her to see him in the light as apart of her family, not just someone she could not relate to. She began to speak her mind and not feel guilty for whatever she said or felt. Kambili develops into womanhood while throwing away everything she has ever learned in her abusie setting.
