College Education Diversity in Law Enforcement 
Education has increased among law enforcement in order to keep up with the change in society and technology. Law enforcement professionals in the past have promoted education for police officers which has improved but having a college degree isn’t a requirement for many local police departments. Scholars argue whether a college degree makes a better law enforcement officer or not. Students that plan on pursuing a career in law enforcement should reconsider their choice of majoring in criminology or criminal justice. There are other skills in demand by federal agencies that would make a student more desirable. Instead of going to college for a bachelor's in criminology students should consider majors like accounting, computer science, or foreign language because this will make the student unique by bringing new skills to the organization. College students can minor in criminology so that they have some knowledge about the field. Law enforcement agencies teach new recruits the information they should know through the academy which is why taking four years of criminology can be repetitive information that will result in a waste of time and money since it will be taught in the academy. Students shouldn’t attend college to major in criminology unless their end goal is to become a police officer.  
Local law enforcement agencies’ minimum requirement to hire someone is a high school diploma but studies have been made to try and prove that a bachelor’s degree would better prepare officers in today’s society. Diana L. Bruns and Jeff W. Bruns in the article “Assessing the Worth of the College Degree on Self-perceived Police Performance” conducted a survey to find any association between police performance and educational level. The community in which police officer work has changed since the twentieth century and the training of officers has increased. The authors came to the conclusion that educational levels do not affect police performance. Officers with higher levels of education will not  have fewer complaints and issues than officers with no college degree (D. Bruns and J. Bruns). A bachelor’s degree in criminology has no influence in police performance, so students should focus on others majors that will provide them with knowledge that won’t be taught in a police academy. 
Individuals who seek a career in law enforcement have to go through the police academy which will consist of all the information required to perform the job. A criminal justice degree only shows that the individual understands the laws and procedures. Ninety eight percent of “police departments in the USA require only a high school diploma or equivalent” (121) which shows that a criminal justice degree isn’t required to become a police officer.  Recruits that are in the police academy will go over the same information so those without a criminal justice degree aren’t less qualified than policemen with college degrees. Even though a high school diploma is a basic requirement for law enforcement, law enforcement departments continue to educate its officers within the agency. 
Few local law enforcement agencies advocate for raising the minimum requirements to become a police officer but more agencies promote education to their officers already employed. In the article “College cops: a study of education and policing in California” the author Christie Gardiner analyzes the education levels of police officers in California and discovered that education levels vary. Although police departments only require a high school diploma they are promoting higher education to the officers by offering incentives like flexible schedules for school and assistance to pay tuition. Police officers with a bachelor’s degree are more efficient by having few absences, able to adapt to change, good with technology, and write better reports than officers who possess no college degree. Higher education requirements also don’t affect gender diversity since the departments who employed more females were the ones with requirements higher than a high school diploma (Gardiner). 
Gardiner proved that college educated officers have benefits over officer without a degree and these “college-educated officers save the department money” (659). The department saves money by getting fewer complaints from cops with a college degree which results in fewer lawsuits to the department. Police officers who may have been unable to attend college immediately after high school can now pursue higher education with the encouragement of their employer. Even in this study “education was not related to success in the police academy or on the job” (650) and “education alone cannot change the police” (Bruns 136). Police officers with college degrees do perform better than non-college cops in some areas like writing reports and using technology but preventing less civil lawsuits should be addressed in the police academy. The civil lawsuits that are less likely to occur with college-educated officers has to do with the job and the authority given to officers. Police officers who are unethical are a result of the department’s environment and has little to do with the education of an individual. Any officer can become unprofessional if leadership within the department is corrupt or the officer becomes self-centered. 
A criminology degree is usually for careers in law enforcement with few options in others pathways but others degrees are in demand by law enforcement agencies. Federal agencies prefer candidates with skills in fields other than criminology. They don’t just require a bachelor’s degree but also work experience. Students can pursue a degree in computer science, accounting, or foreign affairs and also gain experience being a police officer at a local department. Having work experience and a college degree improve the individual’s chances of getting hired by a federal agency. 
Walker, Burns, Bumgarner, and Bratina in “Federal Law Enforcement Careers: Laying the Groundwork” argue that students don’t know the various options in law enforcement especially those offered at the federal level. The criminal justice majors only focus at the local level and professors are not qualified enough to offer advice for students seeking a job at the federal level. Most of the requirements for a federal job require a bachelor’s degree with a focus in STEM majors or foreign languages. Students should research their career options ahead of time in order to understand the requirements and additional skills preferred by the employer (Walker, Burns, Bumgarner, and Bratina). Students may associate a criminology degree as a requirement for the FBI or CIA but this is only a minimum prerequisite and won’t make the candidate competitive for the job. There are common skills that federal agencies look for like “accounting or financial investigation, and proficiency in foreign languages and computers” (120). The skills required by federal agencies give students the flexibility to take the path towards law enforcement or in the field of study that the student majored in. Working at the federal level is a competitive organization exclusive for individuals that have distinguished themselves from state and local government employees. 
A current field of study that involves criminal investigation doesn’t require a criminology degree but candidates with an accounting degree. Brickner, Mahoney, and Moore in “Providing an Applied-Learning Exercise in Teaching Fraud Detection: A Case of Academic Partnering with IRS Criminal Investigation” conducted a study for students majoring in accounting where they took the Adrian Project which required students to apply the skills learned in the classroom to a real life situation. This study helped students improve their skills in communication and investigation of data. The authors are addressing the demand of professionals in accounting to work in careers that deal with fraud. The Adrian Project was made possible by the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation. There was an emphasis placed on educators who teach accounting to improve students’ skills in collecting evidence, using different methods to find out about fraud, and communication (Brickner, Mahoney, and Moore). This is an example of the different skills required by federal agencies and how they require applicants to have higher education in a specialized field. A major like accounting puts students in a position to branch out into other services like “tax, law, criminology, sociology, psychology, intelligence, computer forensics” (695). Students that have different career options can perform law enforcement tasks and then work in their alternative field of study after retiring from law enforcement. 
College students when considering a career in law enforcement should not take a four year course in criminology instead apply for the police academy or take an associate’s degree in criminology. For the students who want a bachelor’s degree they should major in a career that is in high demand by various employers and that can also be of value to law enforcement departments. College should be a place where an individual can learn new skills that wouldn’t be provided by organizations like the police academy or military who train their employees. Most organizations have employees performing the same task but each has a specific skill they are good at and law enforcement should be no different. 




















Works Cited
Brickner, Daniel R., et al. "Providing an Applied-Learning Exercise in Teaching Fraud			Detection: A Case of Academic Partnering with IRS Criminal Investigation." Issues in		Accounting Education, vol. 25, no. 4, Nov. 2010, pp. 695-708. EBSCOhost, 

Bruns, Diana L. and Jeff W. Bruns. "Assessing the Worth of the College Degree on			Self-Perceived Police Performance." Journal of Criminal Justice Education, vol. 26, no.		2, June 2015, pp. 121-146. EBSCOhost, 
 
Gardiner, Christie. "College Cops: A Study of Education and Policing in California." Policing:		An International Journal, vol. 38, no. 4, Nov. 2015, pp. 648-663. EBSCOhost, 

Walker, Jeffery T., et al. "Federal Law Enforcement Careers: Laying the Groundwork." Journal		of Criminal Justice Education, vol. 19, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 110-135. EBSCOhost, 

