Engineers Furthering Obesity in America
	For centuries, engineers have been making the world a much better place to live. Inventions, such as the escalator or the hoverboard, have been created to make sure that people will not have to work as hard throughout each and every day. However, inventions like those have actually been encouraging and enabling more Americans to become extremely lazy. The lack of daily exercise is a direct cause of weight gain and eventually will lead to obesity. In the article, “Obesity prevention: a proposed framework for translating evidence into action” the authors, B. Swinburn, T. Gill, and S. Kumanyika, argue that obesity can be controlled by following a simple five step program that will find a solution to the epidemic (1). Many people believe that the inventors are to blame for this problem, even though it is the consumer's fault. Even though engineers created the problem, they can counter it by creating new workout machines to help overweight Americans lose the weight. Awareness is another key part of this issue. Imagine all that could be accomplished by having a visual representation showing how many calories someone could have burned if they took the stairs as opposed to taking the escalator or elevator.
Economies are reliant upon engineers because without them, the economy would not even exist. In the article, “The evolving role of engineers: towards sustainable development of the built environment” both of the authors, Heather Cruickshank and Richard Fenner, argue that engineers have a major impact on the world. Whether it be using up non-renewable resources or changing the quality of our environment, engineers have worked up quite a poor reputation. They do have positive impacts as well though. For example, engineers generate a lot of money for the economy and improve built environments (2). The people demand improved shelters, food and water supply, and sanitation which once it is applied on a large scale it can negatively influence our environment and waste non-renewable resources. This shows how in order to get the positive effects some negative impacts are going to come with it.  So engineers made it possible for economies to form and thrive in America. 
The majority of inventions are created to make life easier or more convenient for lazy individuals. Examples of this can be found all over America, like the remote control for televisions, the escalator, hoverboards, and drive throughs at fast food restaurants. All of these inventions are making Americans steadily increase in body fat. Ihsane Boualaoui found a statistic from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that stated, “78.6 million American adults are considered obese” (CDC, 2012). That number only includes adults Americans, though. Imagine how much bigger that number would be if they included child obesity statistics as well. This is important because it shows just how big of a deal this is becoming and how much worse it will continue to get, if no one does anything. Introducing a new workout machine engineered to burn more calories through interval training in a short period of time to accommodate the American lifestyle of always being on the go. Once these machines are made, they can be put out onto the market and let the salesmen do their job by explaining how easy this machine makes it to lose body fat and gain muscle fast and easily. Which is important for Americans since this is what they look for in a weight loss product.
Americans have been becoming more and more obese with each passing year. In the article, “Obesity in America” the author, Ihsane Boualaoui, explains just how difficult it is to reduce obesity rates. He also includes how helping these people with obesity is putting a burden on health care and the whole economy (1-2). One of the main reasons why it is so difficult to reduce obesity rates is due to all of the unhealthy foods that Americans consume each day. According to Boualaoui, “ Economically speaking, the estimated annual medical cost of obesity in the U.S. was $147 billion in 2008 U.S. dollars; the medical costs for people who are obese were $1,429 higher than those of normal weight” (Boualaoui 2). This shows just how much money is being spent to treat Americans with obesity. These numbers will only continue to increase each year if nothing is done to stop it.  They will continue to increase because of how lazy Americans have become. Another solution is having a number inside each elevator or at the top and bottom of each escalator that shows how many calories could have been burned if they decided to take the stairs instead. This will give people a realization that taking the stairs each day could make them healthier and put them in better shape. Some may think that this idea is ridiculous or useless but that is what everyone said about putting the calorie count next to every item on the menus at fast food restaurants before that became a requirement. In one other article, “Does Calorie Information Promote Lower Calorie Fast Food Choices Among College Students?” the author Mary A. Gerend found that “Women chose lower calorie meals, lower calorie items, and lower priced meals when calorie information was provided than when it was not.” However later in the article Gerend also finds that it did not affect the male's decision on what to get (2). The only reason why males decided to not get less calories was just because in most case they were trying to gain weight. Since the idea to put the amount of total calories you could have burned does not include food it should have positive results for both males and females. This proves that awareness does have an affect on the choices they make especially when it comes to calories. If it was possible to get calorie counts on every menu across the united states then so is getting the amount of calories that could have been burned out there to spread awareness. 
Engineers are not completely at a fault in this case mostly because obesity would probably still be around if these inventions like the escalator and elevator were never built. However it is still very important to try and help as many people as possible and those inventions that promote laziness do not help. The two biggest problems on the exercising side of the spectrum are the lack of awareness that you could be burning more calories each day by doing something simple like taking the stairs and the second is having enough time to go and workout each day to stay healthy. Putting bright yellow numbers of how many calories you could have just burned if you just took the stairs at the top of every escalator and elevator in the United States would help with providing awareness to the people. A group of engineers coming up with a brand new workout machine that helps people burn more fat and calories within a small time frame would make sure that Americans with little time to workout would now have that opportunity. Engineers have solved much more difficult problems before this and it is only a matter of time before someone figures out how to make less Americans obese.  




Works Cited 
Adults Overweight and Obesity (2012, April 27). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Retrieved from http://www.cdc.gov/obesity/adult/index.html 
Boualaoui, Ihsane. "Obesity in America." (2015).
Cruickshank, Heather J., and Richard Fenner. "The evolving role of engineers: towards 
sustainable development of the built environment." Journal of International Development 19.1 (2007): 111-121.
Gerend, Mary A. "Does calorie information promote lower calorie fast food choices among 
college students?." Journal of Adolescent Health 44.1 (2009): 84-86.
Kumanyika, S., et al. "Obesity prevention: the case for action." International journal of obesity 
26.3 (2002): 425.
