The Forgotten Lessons: Social and Emotional Learning in Schools

Mental health is becoming a more of a concern in education. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) programs are being used in many schools across the nation to teach kids how to manage their emotions. Although the goal of these programs are beneficial to students, the outlook on the types and amount of students receive these benefits is questionable. Researchers and administrators need to work together to ensure that these benefits are being obtained by the students, based on their need. Programs for social and emotional learning are described as many types that deal with activities set in service learning within a positive development framework to build social and emotional skills in early adolescence (Moore McBride, 372). The main purpose of these programs are to increase academic engagement by teaching the student to create positive relationships and learning collaborative skills that are considered fundamental in life (McBride, 371). There have been concerns of how effective these programs are with regards to the mental health of these students. Concerns include whether or not to utilize a prevention program or an  educational one, and finding ways to select the right program based on the school’s needs. Another is about the ages of students that are participating program. Some argue that these programs are needed in older age groups as mental illnesses are much more prevalent than in younger age groups (Macklem, 23).
The main focus and goal in these programs is to provide students with the skills needed to manage stress, prevent emotional disorders, and to improve functioning as a student. This particular focus is important in helping students reach their educational goals and achieve academic success. Studies have shown an increase in academic efficacy in students who participated in these programs, they were also found to be less likely to engage in behavior that was correlated to negative outcomes and behaviors (McBride 378). These results are significant when considering the stress students go through due to academic and environmental pressures. Low-income communities commonly lead to students who are more stressed-out. Therefore, having studies conducted for schools in both environments is also important to find what works best for the students. With that in mind, there is now evidence of positive development and reduced problem behaviors amongst children who are taught social and emotional competence. The Social and Emotional Learning programs are geared to lessen the burden that students have to deal with by teaching them to manage it in healthy ways.
There are five main skills that SEL programs aim to achieve. Self-awareness is teaching the skills to be able to recognize and manage emotions. Self-management is being able to set and achieve goals that would have a positive impact on one’s life. Social awareness is to appreciate the perspective of others and be tolerant towards them. Relationship skills are to establish and maintain positive relationships. Responsible decision-making is being able to make affect decisions in life as both a minor and adult (Durlak, 1). These five goals are all meant to better the student’s mental state about themselves and their potential. There were a number of ways schools aimed to effectively teach these five skills to their students, positive results could be seen in a number of results. As a student myself, I am able to understand the need of these skills when dealing with academic setbacks. Many students who tend to receive higher grades and are not used to struggling in courses find it difficult to cope when they find themselves in a situation where they are lost or are struggling in a particular subject or assignment.  Evidence from previous studies show that positive attitudes toward the future positively affect their levels of well-being in one’s own mind and as an individual’s attitude towards the future becomes positive, the level of burnout decreases (Aypay, 1349). This is all focused on the student's mental state about themselves and their future, getting the balance between healthy practices both academically and mentally could make a major difference for all students.
The SEL programs at schools also target risk prevention/reduction and problem behaviors. These behaviors can include school dropout, substance use, and violence (Jagers, 2). The problem behaviors previously mentioned are also behaviors that have been associated with students who undergo high levels stress levels, and pressures. They are typically seen before physical symptoms are shown (Aypay, 1347). Some argue that having to teaching students how to manage emotions and not teaching them about broader societal issues as to why they have them is restricting. In some views, teaching the kids how to assimilate to their stressful environments rather than improve these under resourced communities (Jagers, 2). 
With current movements such as ‘Black Lives Matter’ and the increase of police brutality, and violence in poor communities, simply because it is seen as something that would be overlook due to the area it took place in, this is an area that needs to be carefully analyzed to ensure it does not happen. Teaching students to ‘deal with’ certain emotions that are associated with their environments should not included in the curriculum or planning for these programs. The behaviors that these programs are geared to are more likely to be seen in poor communities simply because the lack of necessities in these communities. Whether or not these programs are holding low-income students back from escaping poverty, and teaching them to conform to the amounts of stress, many times having financial origins, they have to deal with is debatable. This could be an aspect to keep in mind when doing extensive research on the results of students in these programs.
The environmental influences on a student take a huge roll on burnout and is ultimately detrimental on the student’s mental health. This could lead to a variety of negative consequences for the student both in school and in their future life. The gap between students of affluent backgrounds and students of poverty stricken backgrounds is substantial and is caused by various number of stress-provoking factors. Children are undergoing a life surrounded by stressed out adults, whether it be their parents or teachers. The surroundings are also poorly facilitated, and underserved. These observations that the students are forced through begin to build into their own mind and do not allow them to learn to avoid these situations, if necessary, manage stress levels when the time comes. Altering the methods of teaching according to this program to match the students’ concerns within their community is something that needs to be considered to allow students to reach their maximum potential. Without proper skills to deal with these emotions, they fall into the same pattern of those around them.
The underlying factors of the problems that  this program aims to fix within the schools themselves should also be considered. The teachers have a huge role in how the students learn. Whether aware of it or not, the teacher influences the social-emotional competence with their own behavior in the classroom. Therefore, the classroom environment will have an effect on the students learning. Classrooms with strong child-teacher relationships promote deep learning among students. A child is more likely to persist at a difficult task. When a teacher is managing the class poorly, the results are reversed, the student is more like to perform lower on high-difficulty tasks. This could also be the result of a teacher not being able to manage their own social and emotional skills, or their own well-being in which the student will observe and possibly take from (Schonert-Reicht, 139). Therefore, having teachers that the students are able to look to as a mentor and be influenced by is important, especially early on when the child’s routines in school and life are being developed.
Given the fact that mental illness associated with burnout and academic stress factors, these programs could be necessary in dealing with unstable students. Something to consider is how well the students are using the information taught to them. Also, the methods of teaching, or how the information is being taught. In one study among middle school students, the participants were recruited by being asked to volunteer. Then, surveys were distributed to get information regarding the student's’ feelings and attitudes in school and whether or not they felt they belonged. This step is important in understanding the students perspective both before and after the participation in the program curriculum.(Moore McBride, 376).  Through the perspective of a student who has struggled with their own mental health, this could be exactly what they need. Many times people feel alone in their mental struggles, not only this but they find it hard to talk about because they can’t find the right way to explain their emotions to others. A program that teaches these students to not only manage but talk about these subjects is important in the development of young children and helpful in the lives of older students. Getting these students out of their own minds and preventing them from over thinking especially when their mind is not in a stable state, will not only lead to academic success, but also life success.
This has promising effects for the future and incorporating an open environment for the comfort of students. Removing the burden of emotions will keep the students focused on performing their best. In the article, “ A Positive Model for Reducing  and Preventing School Burnout in High School Students” Ayse Aypay describes the correlation between stressed out students and their subjective well-being as indirectly proportional. “Significant relationships exist between school burnout and subjective well-being. Aypay and Eryılmaz (2011), in their study on the relationship between school burnout and subjective well-being in adolescents, found that the sub-dimensions of school burnout include a lack of interest in school, and burnout due to family is a significant and important predictor of subjective well-being. According to the results of their study, as adolescents’ scores for lack of interest in school and burnout due to family increase, their scores for subjective well-being decrease.” (Aypay, 1348). Without proper management this pressure that the students go through can develop into depression, and lack of motivation to continue to try. There are several cases of physical symptoms occurring in students as a result of stressful factors that are caused by school and classwork. Some of these synonyms include chronic tiredness, reduced energy, and muscle aches (Aypay, 1347). This shows the extreme extent that stress can cause students, and others as well. It can also enforce the ‘No Child Left Behind’ policy, as many students find themselves getting lost in between their emotions and school work. It would provide students with a safe place to express themselves, and avoid the issue of students not getting the necessary help they need because they feel they can’t express feelings of negativity or not belonging. Since it is a relatively new concept and is still undergoing a research process to find any weaknesses and to perfect it towards students of all backgrounds, so the most benefit could be attained. Several studies have been conducted to achieve the knowledge necessary for its improvement. Many of them consisted of students volunteering to participate in the program which, at its current stage, would be an extra lesson to their daily academic lessons.
The results of one the study showed improvements in the areas of student behaviors and academic performance (Moore McBride, 380). This was conducted as evidence that such programs would hinder a student’s academic performance by serving as a distraction from school work. Other studies showed that SEL programs resulted to many different positive outcomes for the students. One of the findings was significant improvement in students’ social and emotional skills. There was an improvement in attitude about themselves, which led to better behavior in the classroom. There was a reduction in emotional distress that was being reflected in symptoms of anxiety and stress. Evidence against the claim that these programs may hinder the child’s ability to focus on academics showed that there was actually an academic improvement seen in students who participated in the program (Durlak, 2). This was not just observed behaviors but also reported by the students themselves. Students said they were less likely to skip class without permission after participating in the program, showing personal growth within themselves and the decisions they begin making (Moore McBride, 382). This shows that these programs are working and having positive effects and influences on these students. 
To move schools to higher performing students both academically and mentally, administrators need to look into this form of teaching to better accommodate their students.Some students admit to feeling out of place or embarrassed in the classroom because of their teacher. Consideration is the only thing the students want from such teachers. An example of this is when a teacher asks the class for any questions in the whole class. Most students agree that it is an awkward situation for any student with a question and they would not feel comfortable to ask. In any situation where a student is too embarrassed to ask a question or feels like they have to watch the way they phrase something in fear of what the teacher will think is the wrong environment for students. 
However, there was not only changes that the students had to make, but there were also specific practices that teachers and school staff had to follow and was determined to make a positive difference in the way the students perceived the curriculum. The article “Social and Emotional Learning and Teachers” by Kimberly A. Schonert-Reicht describes how the teachers influence their students by means outside of just curriculum-based learning. Having teachers who are socially and emotionally competent is the first step in teaching the students. There is evidence of students performing worse in classrooms where the teacher struggles in the management of social and emotional demands of the classroom (Schonert-Reicht, 139). Teachers are also reporting higher levels of on-the-job stress (Schonert-Reicht, 140). To measure the effect this would have, studies were done to find the kind of effect it would have on the student's’ performance. In one study, some teachers were given a plan and four evidence based learning practices that resulted in positive findings for those particular students. This indicates that well-implemented and teacher-taught could significantly improve a student’s performance (Durlak, 2).  Teaching the educators themselves to be emotionally competent is also an important factor for the success of these programs. Effective programming and planning is necessary to reach the best possible outcomes within these schools.
Although there are many other things that would need to be done to education to create an ideal environment for students and even the staff, SEL programs would be the first step in creating it. These educational programs provide students with important tools they will continue to use even after their educational careers are over. Even in the workforce, SEL could enhance their social development as well as personal growth. With the right tools and usage, these programs have the potential of changing mental health statuses in students. Schools should consider the development in all aspects of their students’ lives, such as the personal and social, rather than only focusing on academic achievements.














Works Cited
Aypay, Ayşe. "A Positive Model for Reducing and Preventing School Burnout in High School 
Students." Educational Sciences: Theory & Practice, vol. 17, no. 4, Aug. 2017, pp. 1345-1359.
Bumbarger, Brian and Brian K Bumbarger. "Readiness Assessment to Improve Program
Implementation: Shifting the Lens to Optimizing Intervention Design." Prevention Science, vol. 16, no. 8, Nov. 2015, pp. 1118-1122
Durlak, Joseph A. and Roger P. Weissberg. "Promoting Social and Emotional Development Is an
Essential Part of Students' Education." Human Development (0018716X), vol. 54, no. 1, Apr. 2011, pp. 1-3.
Jagers, Robert J. "Framing Social and Emotional Learning among African-American Youth:
Toward an Integrity-Based Approach." Human Development (0018716X), vol. 59, no. 1, Aug. 2016, pp. 1-3.
Macklem, G.L. “Evidence-Based Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 Mental Health Interventions in 
Schools” Evidence-Based School Mental Health Services: Affect Education, 19
Emotion Regulation Training, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. Springer. 2011. Vol. 17. p. 297. PDF.
Moore McBride, Amanda, et al. "Preventing Academic Disengagement through a Middle
School–Based Social and Emotional Learning Program." Journal of Experiential Education, vol. 39, no. 4, Dec. 2016, pp. 370-385
Schonert-Reicht, Kimberly A. "Social and Emotional Learning and Teachers." Future of
Children, vol. 27, no. 1, Spring 2017, pp. 137-155
