Conflicting Love
Many families, real and fake, deal with conflicting emotions from other family members such as mothers and father. In the book “Purple Hibiscus”, the family lives a normal Christian life in Africa until they show you a dark side of the story filled with pain, death and sorrow. The father, Eugene, is both abusive and loving towards his family. Many seem to be bewildered by his demeaner and actions towards the people he says that he loves and wants to protect. The purpose of this essay is to breakdown Eugene’s confusing relationship with his wife and kids and to add sources to back up the claims made in this essay. Some may be asking, why is Eugene’s relationship with his family complicated? His relationship with his family is complicated because he is excessively judgmental, extremely abusive, and conflictingly overbearing.
	In “Purple Hibiscus” the author, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, portrays the father, Eugene, as an overly protective and abusive father to his wife, daughter, and son. One trait of his that contributes to this is how judgmental he is towards everyone around his family and to his family. In the passage it shows how he judges his kids on how they perform in school and even compare them to other kids. He also judges how his sister and father lives and feels that he is better than them because of the difference in their beliefs. An example of this is when Eugene wouldn’t allow his kids to stay too long at his father’s house because he calls him “Godless”. Another example of him judging someone is when he calls the young visiting priest “Godless” for singing a song during his sermon. This shows that papa is extremely judgmental towards his own family and others to the point where he is rude and ignorant about it.
	Papa in the passage confuses many of the readers with how abusive he is to the family he proclaims to love and support. This is shown when Eugene hospitalizes his wife over her not wanting to go inside Father Benedict’s house, this was due to her being sick. Many wonder how could a man beat the women he claims to love and cherish. Eugene is also abusive to his children which is prominent in the story and that makes everyone wonder how they can love him so much. Kambili and Jaja must come home and see their mother and father’s abusive relationship a lot and they still are attached to their father, it surprises a lot of the readers. In an article titled “Emotional Abuse in Committed Relationships: Effects on Children” Written by Steven Stosny, Ph.D., he states that “Witnessing a parent victimized is often more psychologically damaging to children than injuries from direct child abuse.” (Pg.10) which also supports the claim that the relationship of the father and the rest of the family is very conflicting and confusing.
	The family are shown as happy in a lot of the story due to the father being so nice to his kids such as giving them “Love sips” of his tea and buying them all new supplies for school. This is the source of many of the reader’s confusion. He shows so much love to his kids and wife then turns back around to beat them and abuse them mentally and physically. The words “Conflictingly overbearing” are being used because he goes against the picture that is painted of him in most of the passage. Most people see Eugene as an abusive father and husband that forces his family to do and believe in what he believes in. This confuses most of the audience because they don’t know what to believe about him now and find themselves torn between believing he is a loving/caring father and he is a terrible/abusive father.
	The passage tells about a father that does anything to make sure his kids are good, even abuse them. The relationship presented in the passage is very confusing and conflicting because of how he is portrayed differently throughout the entire book. One minute Eugene is the most loving father and husband but the next he is beating his wife because she didn’t do what he thought was best or his kids because they didn’t live up to his standards as a Christian family. Eugene’s relationship with his family is confusing and complicated because he is excessively judgmental, extremely abusive, and conflictingly overbearing towards his wife and his two children Kambili and Jaja.
















Citations: 
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi, 1977-. Purple Hibiscus. Chapel Hill, N.C.: Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2003. Print.
Stosny, Steven. “Emotional Abuse in Committed Relationships: Effects on Children.” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 2011, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/anger-in-the-age-entitlement/201101/emotional-abuse-in-committed-relationships-effects-children.
