Love Hurts
Like the characters in her novel, Purple Hibiscus, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie was born and raised in Nigeria in a strict household with high expectations. For example, to honor her father’s wishes, Adichie originally enrolled in medical school. Shortly after the start of her school year, she dropped out to pursue her dream of becoming a writer (Biography of, para 1). Adichie wrote Purple Hibiscus, a New York Times best seller that chronicles the lives of fifteen-year-old Kambili and her older brother Jaja, two children growing up in Enugu, Nigeria. The novel addresses many different themes including abuse, religion, wealth, and family complexity. One of the most prominent themes is parental abuse. Throughout the novel, patterns emerge involving the behavior of Kambili's father, Eugene Achike, also known as “Papa.” His antics of abuse and strict parenting reveal an evil and malicious character despite his public persona in the church where others view him as a pillar of the community. To them, he is a “good man.” Combined, Papa’s convoluted demeanor causes his relationships with his family to be perplexing because they stand in contrast to the way others view him. Eugene's relationships within his family are complex because he is inconsistent with his love, he is abusive out of “love,” and he is strict beyond reason.
It is clear to see that Kambali loves her father deeply, despite the inconsistent way he behaves and expresses his love to his children. Kambali holds her father to this standard to which no one can compare. In the text adichie's shows that there are little things Kambali cherishes when it comes to her father like the little “love sips” of his tea. Before the reader is exposed to Papa's ways of the abusing his children and wife, the only impression is how Kambili speaks of her father. For example Even though she may see him as a “good man,” she is still not blind to his darker side. For example, there a few occasions in the novel where Kambili is nervous for what's to come. “He knew I was looking at him, that my shocked eyes begged him to seal his mouth but he did not look at me.” With this, Kambili shows her reaction to when she witnesses her brother and father talking about why her brother Jaja decided not to go to communion. Physical abuse involves non-accidental harming of a child by, for example, burning, beating, or breaking bones. Verbal abuse involves harming a child by, for example, belittling them or threatening physical or sexual acts. Emotional trauma can result from several forms of abuse. Papa’s response to Jaia’s decision and his defiance that followed at the dinner table fits within the definition of verbal abuse. Papa throws the missal, breaking cherished figurines, and belittles Jaia by calling him a disgrace to the family. For Kambili, it is clear that this exchange put her on higher alert to her father’s rage, begging her brother with her eyes to stop for his own sake. She fails to stop the incident even though she anticipates it and is emotionally traumatized by the exchange even before it happens. So, even though Kambili admires her father and appreciates how well respected he is, she is also terrified of him. His behavior creates complex relationships that Adichie captures as neither entirely good or entirely bad. It is not just that he holds Kambili to high expectations that matters. More importantly, his strict style involves humiliation and embarrassment for Kambili. He imposes such pressure to excel on her shoulders that it proves unreasonable.
 	While Papa is emotionally and physically abusive, one of the most perplexing things he does is perform these actions through what one would call “ tough love” or in Papa's case, being abusive out of love. Tough love is an oxymoron that describes a type of “love” which involves badgering, neglecting, intimidating, shaming and even abuse (Where is, Para1).The idea is that if said actions are performed on the child it shows he or she that the parent still loves them and that is why they are doing this because it will help them to learn from their mistakes. Although Papa may think he is doing the right thing, in reality he is causing confusion in the minds of those whom he abuses. For example when Kambili is visiting her Aunty Ifeoma, her mother suddenly appears and tells her that her father has broken a table on her stomach killing her baby. The reader can infer from the text that her father's actions might confuse Kambali arising questions in her mind such as “why would he do this if he loved her” especially since, it is evident that her mother still tries to sympathize and vouch for him. In another instance, Papa pours boiling water on Kambali and Jaja’s feet because they visited their grandfather against Papa’s wishes.  Kambali must wrestle with Papa’s abuse of his mother and her defense of him to decide whether he is acting out of love. Likewise, when the boiling water is poured on their feet, Kambali suffers that abuse and later receives affection from Papa.
            Though there are many ways to parent and “strict parenting” is relatable to most readers, it is clear that Papa is strict with his children beyond even the narrowest definition. In the most common examples, strict parenting consists of reprimanding children with a higher tone of voice or spanking the child when she misbehaves. In other cases, it can involve being controlling such as micromanaging the child. The most extremely strict parents combine tense reprimands, corporal punishment, and control over the child’s behavior. Papa is strict beyond reason. For example, Papa puts an immense amount of stress on Kambili and Jaja by hovering over them 24/7, constantly trying to be in control of their every move. For example, “I push my textbooks aside, looked up, and stared at my daily schedule, pasted on the wall above me. Kambili was written in bold letters on top of the white sheet of paper, just as Jaja’s was written on the schedule above Jaja’s desk in his room (Adichie 23). Adichie then goes onto to insinuate that because of Papa's parenting style, it would be no surprise if he had a schedule written for the expecting baby once he or she arrived. This act of micromanaging gives the reader insight into how controlling Papa truly is. The sad part is that his controlling actions don't stop at creating a detailed schedule for everyone in the family. Papa is also known as what one would call a helicopter parent. A helicopter parent is a parent who pays extremely close attention to their child's experiences, particularly regarding the child's education (Bayless Para 1). Kambili is fearful of the consequences to come. For example, she says that her “stomach was making sounds, hollow rumbling sounds that seemed too loud, that would not stop.” In a dramatic showing, Papa takes Kambili to school, ask Kambili to point out the girl who beat her in school rankings, and then humiliates her by making Kambili feel guilty for not performing as well as he would want. This type of parenting mechanism is unhealthy for the child's mental health. In the future, making having the child walk around with all this extra guilt will deter them from being able to think straight and even perform well in many different scenarios including school work (Anderson Para 6).
To conclude, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie wrote Purple Hibiscus. A novel published in 2003 that pursues the lives of 15-year-old Kambali Adichie and her older brother Jaja. As the reader navigates through the novel he or she will begin to see the complex relationship between Kambili's father Eugene and his family. Eugene’s relationships with his family are complex because he is abusive out of love, inconsistent with his love, and strict beyond reason. Studies show that although he may mean well, using these types of parenting styles can really affect your child's mental health ultimately deterring them from performing well in all aspects of life.



Works cited 

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple Hibiscus. Fourth Estate, Imprint HarperCollins, 2017.
Bayless, Kate. “What Is Helicopter Parenting?” Parents, Parents, 11 June 2015, www.parents.com/parenting/better-parenting/what-is-helicopter-parenting/.
“Child Abuse.” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 18 May 2017, www.psychologytoday.com/conditions/child-abuse.
“7 Cups - Free Care & Therapy.” (Disabilities) | 7 Cups of Tea, www.7cups.com/qa-disabilities-41/where-is-the-fine-line-between-tough-love-and-emotional-ab
