About Me Reflection
	 I started off my ‘About Me’ assignment looking at the basis of most introductions. I followed a script that I saw just two weeks ago as my niece started kindergarten. In a lot of ways, I feel like a kindergartener at this point in my academic career. As my boyfriend, parents, siblings, friends and so on said goodbye to me I found my eyes filling with tears and my arms holding on just a bit tighter, much like a kindergartener might react when their parents drop them off for their first day at school. While I understand the concepts of school more than my niece did two weeks ago, I still don’t know who I am, what I’ll be, or what this university is going to do to shape the person I’ll become.
	Coming into the semester I have some assumptions about who I will be. Assumptions that I’ll remain in a relationship, that I’ll continue to grow in my faith, and that despite the distance I will continue to grow closer to each of my siblings. Obviously, I know my age, aspirations, and the type of person I want to be. I know that I love to dance and that it will always be a passion of mine but what I don’t know is how that aspect of my life will change over the course of the next few years. I will remain a daughter to two loving parents and I will always have “Mayberry” to go home to. Coming from such a small, friendly community I know that I will always have love in my life. I know that I am supported by many but I have yet to figure out who that person really is that they are supporting.
	Business is the major for those of us who don’t know what we will be but do not want to take on all the questions and comments about gloriously undeclared majors. My slide reads that I want to become a human resources manager for a large company. I honestly have no idea what that entails. I know that what it means to me is that I will be making enough money to hopefully pay off my student loans and improve the lives of my loved ones. My mother got her college degree when I was in elementary school and she is still in debt. Other than that, I am the first in my family to go to school. Basically, I don’t have a clue what I’m doing but I’m trying to get there. So, in the section of what I want to be when I grow up, I filled in an answer like any kid might do with just a general career that sounds like a good idea. What I will actually end up being is a mystery in and of itself. 
	This university, as cliché as it is going to sound, felt right when I stepped on campus. This university was not the best choice financially for me. It was not close to home and it has put strains on my relationships. This university has smacked me in the face and I have felt so alone. My belief is that there is a bigger picture for me, that I’m meant to be here, and that I’m going to discover myself in ways that will surprise me over the course of the next few years. I didn’t grow up in this district and my parents definitely did not sign me up for this particular academic endeavor. Quite frankly, my dad put away his own college paraphernalia and reluctantly screwed on a license plate with my university's mascot wondering what I was thinking going so far from home. Kindergarteners don’t know why they’re at the school they’re at, they just go. In the same way I don’t know why I chose to be here, but I came to find out.
Eighteen years of life and I still don’t really know who I am. I don’t have a consistent Instagram or Twitter bio because I don’t know exactly how to describe myself. I filled in the blanks and checked all the boxes that I saw fit in order to create a slide to get a grade. In theory, I know that I am not alone in questioning my school choice, missing my boyfriend, or just feeling really overwhelmed. I know that others are also not sure who they are, what they’ll be, or what they’re doing in this city. Unlike kindergarten, I know the basis of all good relationships and I am seeking meaning in the friends that I meet on campus. Selectively I am looking at opportunities to find myself and shape who I am. Until then, I am Sam, 18, from Anytown, USA.
