Marketing Intern; Volunteer Center 
Critical Reflection #4 

		At our most recent event, the Fairy Garden Children’s Tea, we had a few teenagers show up to volunteer. These high schoolers had not registered to volunteer and had not known the proper dress for the event. I witnessed the events intern at a loss. She wasn’t sure where to put them because they could not be hosts on the floor dressed the way that they were. Aside from that, it was very obvious their goal was to get hours and they did not have a good attitude the entire time. I am not good with confrontation so watching her handle them was a learning experience. Ones with continuous attitude did not get their forms filled out and were told that they could improve or leave. She quickly explained to them the proper behavior for the event and that they could either be cooperative and helpful or they would be asked to leave. Although she was only a few years older than them, she was able to deal with the situation very efficiently. 
		Even though she was honest and upfront with them, she was very polite and nice to them about it. Those who were not dressed appropriately were used in the back. From this experience, I learned that you can be effective when dissatisfied without being rude or unpleasant. 
		At this point in my internship, I have started to refine and start working with TV, Radio, and News outlets more and more. It’s been really interesting for me to get my hands on and experiment with. I’ve learned a little about what works and doesn’t work. For the Children’s Tea event, I wrote and sent out my first media advisory. I had never done anything like it and was given the assignment a little late notice. Although I was in a pinch, two camera crews attended the event as a result. I did learn from this experience to specify who they need to speak to once they get to the event. They spoke with the co-chair instead of my director. She spoke more on the financial side of the fundraiser which is something the center typically avoids in the media. Going forward, I can learn from this mistake. 
	By the end of my internship I hope to have done a broadcast interview about the center. Annie, my director, mentioned it to me for the next event and it is something she could prepare me for. I’ve also started looking into grantwriting workshop as it a part of the center that isn’t being fulfilled right now and I think it would be an interesting skill to add to my resume.
