English 101 Section 14

                                                     A Dysfunctional Family

     In the novel, The Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Adichie offers an emotional ride by the powers of the bond of a family. Eugene, also called Papa, is characterized as a loving, caring father and husband in public but behind closed doors he’s a violent person towards his family. The mental and physical abuse he causes can wind up separating them and cause hatred. Eugene has damaged his family by invading their privacy, physically abusing them, and molding them to his beliefs in their religion.
     As your kids grow older they expect to receive a little more privacy than before. In this case, Eugene allows no privacy to his family in their home. As stated in chapter ten, at the dinner table Eugene prayed longer than usual. This was because his children had lived under the same roof of what he calls a “heathen” referring to his own father. Jaja asks for the key to his room, knowing only their father can lock the doors. Eugene believed that Jaja would sin against himself but in fact he only hungered for privacy.
     Not only is Eugene depriving his family from privacy, he is also causing major harm to his wife and kids. Towards the beginning of the story Mama was pregnant and now she is not. One evening after the family returned home from church, Kambili heard loud thuds come from her parent’s room. The noises were not at all new to her so as she counts to 20 the noises usually stop. When they did stop, Papa came out of the room with Mama slung over his shoulder leaving a pool of blood on the floor behind them. As Eugene takes his wife outside, the kids cleaned up the remaining blood indicating that the same situation happened before. The next day Mama returned announcing that she is no longer carrying the baby. This indicates that Eugene has conflicted feelings. He loves his family but at the same time he punishes them for not living the right way. Eugene also “taught his children a lesson” by pouring boiling hot water on their feet and told them that’s what it feels like to walk on sin. As a father, it hurts him to see his family in pain but as a man true to his religion and the way he loves God he believes he is doing the right thing,
     Lastly, Eugene tries to burn his beliefs into others so they can convert to his religion and feel what he feels. In chapter ten, Papa-Nnukwu passes away in Aunt Ifeoma’s flat. Eugene arrives there to pick up his children but when he hears the news he’s not phased, he shows no emotion. The text says, “Is that all you can say, eh, Eugene? Have you nothing else to say, gbo? Our father has died! Has your head turned upside down? Will you not help me to bury our father?” “I cannot participate in a pagan funeral, but we can discuss with the parish priest and arrange a Catholic funeral.” (pages 188-189). This quote explains what kind of man Eugene is, he has no sympathy or regard for his own father. He still wants to convert, I’m guessing, his father’s soul so that he can give him a Catholic funeral. Papa-Nnukwu was not at all Catholic, that would be the upmost disrespectful thing to do. Aunt Ifeoma argues that she would rather sell her dead husbands grave before having a Catholic funeral for her father.
     In conclusion, Eugene and his family have a very intricate relationship. It involves being controlled and abused. No loving family should have to experience what Eugene does to his. The destruction caused by not having privacy, physical abuse, and forced beliefs in religion Eugene has in a way destroyed his family.
