Argumentative Essay 
	The topic of breastfeeding in public is one that has been debated for several years and continues to be controversial in today’s society. The topic is debated to be either a natural aspect of life that should be encouraged and not suppressed, along with an activity that is viewed to be disgusting and not for public viewing. Evidence supports the claim that this issue became more controversial with the sexualization of the female breast which, according to New York University professor Amy Bentley, started around the end of World War II and the start of the Playboy industry (Breastfeeding in Public 3). Although breastfeeding has been happening since the beginning of time, women did not always partake in it while out in public. History shows that pre-World War, women typically did not leave the house to go to work, allowing them to stay home to feed their children. However, when the switch was made to allow women into the work force, people became exposed to the sight of breastfeeding out in public (Breastfeeding in Public 2). Even in 2017, when 49 of the 50 states have laws allowing a woman to breastfeed in public, this issue is still controversial and draws intense emotions out of people. The question is, why are people not okay with breastfeeding in public when it is a natural activity which must be completed to maintain the life of a child? 
	The discussion of sexualizing the female breast has caused several issues for mothers when it comes to breastfeeding their child in public. A social experiment produced by Joey Salads from YouTube shows how the general public reacts differently to a breastfeeding mother compared to a female who may be wearing a “seductive” shirt. In this video, a nursing mother by the name of Emily, was sitting on a bench in a local mall breastfeeding her son. Not only did all of the males who walked up to Emily make some comment about how they are not pleased with her decision, but also half of the females made negative comments towards this mother. When a model was placed on this same bench, only one gentlemen came up and talked to the model. When both the mother and the model were placed on the same bench, 100 percent of the people who made comments had a problem with Emily feeding her child in the manner that she was. For clarification, Emily was covering both herself and her son, but she was breastfeeding him. Some of the comments made by the public claimed that what Emily was doing was “disgusting” and they did not want to witness it. Another man made the comment that because the model’s shirt was low cut her appearance was considered to be sexy and the public allows her to be like that. However, in the case of Emily, the gentleman said how Emily’s actions are not supposed to be for public viewing and she should move to a different location (Sexy vs Breastfeeding). The issue of the sexualized breast creates a double standard when it comes to nursing mothers. If they were to wear suggestive clothing nobody would make comments but the minute that a mother deicides to feed a child, there is an issue with the public. 
	In regard to the legality of breastfeeding in public, 49 of the 50 states along with Washington D.C. and the US Virgin Islands allow mothers to breastfeed in public. The state of Idaho is the only state that will consider breastfeeding in public a criminal offense. The law reads, “Idaho does not provide women an affirmative right to breastfeed in public or at work” (Legal Momentum Map). 29 US states also have laws that protect nursing mothers from public indecency laws (Breastfeeding in Public 2). Several states such as Pennsylvania and Louisiana have laws that do not make it explicitly clear if the mother is allowed to breastfeed in her place of employment or not. States such as Hawaii and Texas have laws the clearly state that mothers may nurse throughout the work day, and companies in these states even advertise as being “mother friendly”. In the past three years, Michigan, Alaska, and West Virginia have officially adapted the policy of public breastfeeding but it has not spread to the work place yet (Legal Momentum Map). If the American society claims to be equal rights for all and is against discrimination, why is there no federal law that allows mothers to nurse in public? What aspects make this such an issue that it is still illegal in parts of our country? 
	There are several benefits that have been linked to breastfeeding. For starters, breastfeeding a baby helps create a bond between mother and child (Breastfeeding in Public 2). If a mother does not nurse her child because she is in public, she is now losing an opportunity to bond with her child. Another claim from breastfeeding is that studies have shown a correlation between higher IQ scores, stronger immune systems and prevention of illnesses, along with a higher resistance to certain allergens (Breastfeeding in Public 2). Once again if a mother does not breastfeed her baby while they are in public simply because of the public’s opinion, she is losing the chance the increase these positive aspects for her baby.
	Some people have convincing counterpoints explaining why breastfeeding in public should not be an occurrence. One counterpoint claims that breastfeeding in public could be a public health risk. Many people believe that since breastmilk is a bodily fluid and therefore can spread infectious disease to the public. According to the US Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), breastmilk is not considered to be a bodily fluid. However, the CDC does make claims that breastmilk has the capabilities to spread diseases such as HIV and hepatitis B. (Breastfeeding Should Be Private 1). But considering how the milk is only being transferred from the mother’s breast to the baby’s mouth and perhaps a drop falls to the ground, the threat of infecting the public is one with no validity. 
	There are several mothers who are on board with the thought that breastfeeding should only occur in isolated areas. Some of the mothers make the claim that the weather may have an effect on the breastmilk in question. If the weather is too cold, the breast may not respond properly and then have issues with lactation (Breastfeeding in Public: Pros vs Cons 3). However, most mothers are not breastfeeding while sitting in a pile of snow. The phrase “breastfeeding in public” does not mean that all of these mothers are sitting outside nursing their children. Public may mean inside a local mall, on a park bench, in the grocery store, or anywhere else where there may be other people. The claim of weather may make sense if the majority of nursing mothers lived in Alaska or the North Pole, but since they do not, this claim does not carry much weight to it. 
	A third claim as to why breastfeeding in public should not be a thing also relates to the mother’s wellbeing. Because not all 50 states protect nursing mothers from public indecency laws, many women are faced with the stress and anxiety of being fined and ticketed. Stress has a negative effect on a mother’s breast and her supply of milk. If too much stress in occurring, the supply of milk may diminish or even completely stop production (Breastfeeding in Public: Pros vs Cons 3). This is a valid point and it does affect numerous mothers in this country. However, if there was a national law that protected nursing mothers from public indesency charges, the issue would be fixed. 
	The United States of America was founded on the belief of equality for all, but yet in 2017 there is still discrimination and inequality in our everyday lives. Every human being born came from a mother, and the majority of these mothers breastfed their children. In the olden days, that was the only way to nourish a child and no one thought anything of it. In the world that we live in today, we need to realize that the female breast is not a sexual object and therefore breastfeeding in public is not an issue that needs to be discussed. If a baby is hungry, it needs to be fed. Mothers should not face fines, tickets, or criminal charges regardless of what state they are residing in. Regarding the points of mother’s health, the stress and anxiety would drop in nursing mothers if there was no fear of punishment or harassment. Mothers should have the right to breastfeed their children whenever and wherever they may be, with no punishments and no discrimination held towards them.
	


Works Cited

Salads, Joey. “Sexy vs Breastfeeding (Social Experiment).” YouTube, YouTube, 18 Jan. 2016, 
	www.youtube.com/watch?v=sOEHRsRIodI. 
Shevtsova, Maria. “Breastfeeding in Public: the Pros and Cons.” Mother How, 22 Sept. 2016, 
	motherhow.com/breastfeeding-in-public/.
“State by State Map - Pregnancy Discrimination Laws, Breastfeeding and Leave Rights.” State 
by State Map - Pregnancy Discrimination Laws, Breastfeeding and Leave Rights | Legal Momentum, Legal Momentum, 2009, www.legalmomentum.org/state-state-map-pregnancy-discrimination-laws-breastfeeding-and-leave-rights#.
