

Discussion

To begin, there was a significant positive correlation between height (cm) and vital capacity standing (L), that is, as height increased there was a corresponding significant increase in VC (standing). This supported the hypothesis that VC (standing) correlated with the other parameters. A possible reason for this could be that due to an increased height, the thoracic cavity of the individual could be larger and he/she could have larger lungs having a greater capacity and space for increased air volumes. In another study, it was found that height could be used to predict VC accurately (Parma et al., 1995). Considering height could accurately predict VC, height would have to strong correlation to VC to make that prediction. This correlation between VC and height was also found in this study with Principles of Biology students.  

VC (standing) (L) and resting heart beats per minute showed no correlation, meaning that as resting heart beats per minute increased there was no corresponding definite increase or decrease in VC (standing). This did not support the hypothesis that VC (standing) correlated with the other parameters; therefore, the null hypothesis could not be rejected. An underlying reason for why resting heart beats per minute did not impact VC (standing) can be that since heart rate is the rate at which oxygen is transported to and from the heart, it would have no correlation to how much air can be inhaled and exhaled from the lungs. It has been found in past studies that there was a correlation between heart beats per minute and VC (Zou et. al., 2017), but this studied focused on already ill individuals. This study focused on healthy 17 to 34 year olds, thus having no underlying medical issue that could have impacted the results like the study mentioned before. 

There was also a positive correlation between chest circumference (cm) and VC (standing) (L). This means that as chest circumference increased there was a corresponding increase in VC (standing). This supported the hypothesis that VC (standing) correlated with the other parameters. A possible reason for this could be, similarly to increased height, due to an increased chest circumference, the thoracic cavity would be larger and the individual could have larger lungs due to the extra space. This would allow for a greater capacity and space for increased air volume. A study trying to discover if ethnic differences in lung function could be explained by chest size found that the influence of chest circumference was trivial and did not impact their results (Whittaker et. al., 2004). This differed from the results found in this study considering there was a correlation found between chest circumference and VC. The reason for this difference could be that in the study mentioned, children ages ranging from 6-11 years old were used, while in this study, students with ages ranging from 17-34 years old. This age difference between the two studies could account for the difference between the two. 

There was also a relationship that could be found between VC and gender. Females had an overall lower average VC, both standing and sitting, than the males. This shows that males have higher lung capacity than females. This could be due to the fact that the males had also a higher average height to females causing them to have a larger thoracic cavity and lungs. This same result was found in a study in 2015. It was found that males tended to have an increased VC to females (Youssef et. al., 2015). This same finding was found when observing the subjects of this study. When regarding smoking and athleticism, there was no strong correlation found between the two and VC respectively. First of all, there were only two smokers in the whole sample, which was not enough to objectively observe if there was a positive or negative correlation between it and VC. Athleticism also could not be determined if it impacted VC because, like smoking, there were not many student athletes. Also type of athlete was not specified; therefore, an individual could have not been at their best, training wise, at the time the experiment was done. 

These findings show that, overall, height, chest circumference, and gender had the most impact on VC. This could show that bigger chest cavities in general would result in a higher VC. In future studies this finding should be looked at more in depth across more age groups. A study focusing on smoking and athleticism should be conducted since the sample size for this particular study was not sufficient to make a conclusion regarding those two.  

























http://removed-this-url.com/ 
http://removed-this-url.com/
