Personal Narrative
	“I want to be on Broadway,” my friend Casey said as we were talking one day. My first thought was, “Let her dream.” Even as a junior and senior in high school, Riley was never connected with any performance opportunities other than our high school drama class, and she was not involving herself in auditions for local theater, even when I invited her to audition with the company I performed with. I never understood how Casey thought she could make it in the professional world without making any effort or progress towards that goal.
	Until I read Jean Twenge’s essay “An Army of One: Me,” I could not see Casey’s perspective. Twenge discusses self-esteem and its positive and negative effects on society. One negative effect is that parents are encouraging self-esteem so much in their children that the kid reaches a point where he thinks everything he does is perfect. That particular way of thinking will not get you anywhere in this world. Parents can be supportive of their children without giving them the idea that they can do whatever they want, and that they are good at everything they do. Everyone has an aspect of life where they are gifted and talented, but when parents treat a kid as if he is amazing at basketball when he really isn’t, he may be in for a letdown later in life. That same child may miss out on other opportunities to discover that he is actually extremely talented at something else, like playing instruments or painting.
	Casey’s mindset of “I can do whatever I think I can do, even without effort” had to be along these same lines and developed from her childhood. I noticed other clues to the fact that she might have been treated as younger than she is. Sometimes it had to do with the clothes she wore or the way she did her hair; other times it was specific things she did that caused me to think she wasn’t allowed to grow up. Casey would not eat at school, but, not to necessarily point out bad eating habits, she told me of days that she just went home to eat a huge bag of Skittles. I worked with Casey at a summer day camp this past summer, and she was too frequently overwhelmed by the sixth grade girls she was counselor to. She would ask me to watch her class temporarily while she stepped outside to call her mom and complain about how much the girls annoyed her. I don't think Casey’s parents raised her to think and act for herself. She must accept responsibility and learn how to control a classroom, and it just was not working.  Casey’s high self-esteem in some areas can be compared to her low self-esteem in other areas. In an unusual way of striving for acceptance, Casey would sit alone at her own table at lunch, make it a point to walk alone, or complain that she was a loser and didn’t have any friends. My friend Jaime was talking to her one day as Casey was crying. She complained that nobody liked her and that everybody thought she was weird. Jaime tried to tell her that it should not matter what everyone else thinks. But we have grown up in this generation where we are told that our worth is defined by the opinions of other people. Casey had a page designated to her in the yearbook, as did many other seniors. Her note from her mom was more like a paragraph describing her as a “perfect princess” and her viewing of the world “with child like wonder.” 
	Parents need to stop babying their kids. Children must learn how to survive on their own without mommy and daddy standing by their sides. I was somewhat        sheltered as a kid, but my parents knew when to let me grow up. I think that treating children like babies for too long can contribute to low self-esteem when they feel like they know less than all their friends because their parents kept them out of the real world.
	I experimented with different sports, and experimenting was all that I did. I can’t  exactly say that I am talented in that specific area. But my parents did not tell me I was really good at something unless I was actually really good at that thing. I tried out for volleyball for several years and never made the team, but my parents strongly encouraged me to practice if I was going to succeed. They knew that success was going to require work, and hard work at that. 
	When I was younger, I took gymnastics. I was about five or six years old, and I remember I had just made it to the “Dolphin” level in my class. I was very good, and my coaches wanted me to compete, but I was terrified. My parents strongly encouraged me to keep going. They knew that if I persisted and joined the competitive group, I could be highly successful. But I quit. I told my parents a year or two ago that I wished they had forced me to stay in gymnastics; they said they tried, but that I refused to go. They kindly informed me that it was indeed my fault that I am no longer a gymnast. It’s hard to accept, but it’s the reality of life. I have no one to blame but myself. That’s what is missing in Casey’s life; she does not want to face reality, and she is going to get hurt.
	My brother Kerry is twelve years old and has played football most of his life until he dropped it last season. Kerry was considering playing again this season because his coach promised him a certain position on the team. Last time the coach made a promise like this, he recognized that another player was better for that position, and Kerry sat on the bench for most of the season. Though Kerry might play again this year, my mom told him to expect bench time. She realizes that other kids are also very talented and have possibly had more experience with football, and she wants Kerry to be aware of this fact, too. She told him not to get his hopes up, for many other boys are very strong players. 
	The issue we have in America these days is an over-emphasis on self-esteem. Children are growing up thinking that they deserve recognition for everything they do, and that’s where we’ve gone wrong. Participation trophies are cute, and they are acceptable for young kids, but when kids learn to expect rewards, the ones who are exceptional in that sport or activity are left thinking they are at the same level as everybody else.
	At my high school, the administration gave awards to those with the highest academic average grade in each subject. Every year, for the most part, the same students receive the same awards. I was one of them. But some of these students are resented or laughed at, partially because they are the “nerds” of the class, but also because some of the students who acquire these awards know without a doubt that they will be the ones who receive them. By having these awards presented to them for several years, the intelligent students build their self-esteem a little bit every time, which causes bitterness from other students. 
	I am talented musically; I can play several instruments, and a couple of them very well. When I first decided that I wanted to play the flute, I remember my parents questioning if I was absolutely sure about playing it. They wanted me to know that this new hobby of mine would require years of commitment, and through their encouragement and my being forced to practice ninety minutes a week for some time, I greatly developed this skill. This has not, however, led to an excessive amount of self-esteem in me. I can tell the difference between knowing I am good at something and using the talent with humility and bragging about it or showing off to others. 
	The difference between my self-esteem and that of Casey is that my parents understood that excessiveness is harmful. My parents did not want their four children to be raised to become overly confident or cocky. Casey’s parents seemed to have a different view. Maybe it was because she was their only child and they wanted her to feel special, or maybe they really did not realize that they were treating Casey as child.
	Humility seems to be a lost trait in this day and age. People boast of their own greatness, and we are basically taught to do so from childhood. Children feel they deserve so many things because they have always been given their heart’s every desire. Older generations rant and complain that millennials feel entitled, but we are taught to think this way, and I don’t think it is always a bad thing. In “An Army of One” Twenge gives the example and illustration of the children’s coloring book “Be a Winner” (Twenge 494). Kids are engrossed in things in everyday life that build their self-esteem. I am not saying that self-esteem is a bad thing, because a lack of self-esteem can be detrimental to a person, but we need it in more moderation. 



Works Cited

Twenge, Jean. “An Army of One: Me.” The New Humanities Reader. 5th edition, 
Cengage Learning, 2015