


Causes of the War of 1812
The causes of the War of 1812 have been debated and will continue to be debated just as it is with any war in history. Wars are declared in result of previous conflicts between countries, but there almost always is multiple conflicts that add into the declaration of war. In the case of the War of 1812, power and wealth were raging conflicts between Great Britain and the United States. There are historians who argue smaller ideas, such as Donald Hickey, who proposed that the United States wanting to overtake the territory of Canada was a cause of the war (Trautsch). However, the impressment of naval ships and the Orders of Council of 1807 are easily the most prominent causes of the War of 1812. 
	In 1793, when Great Britain was fighting the Napoleonic War against France, impressment became a common tactic among the British (Gilje). The term impressment can be described as the capturing of men and women to be forced into naval service (Malcomson). The need for men to fight against France was growing. In result, the British used the tactic of impressment to grow their “number of seamen . . . from 36,000 in 1792 to approximately 120,000 men by 1805.” Later on, as American began to grow its naval services, they began to offer higher wages, which attracted men from British ships to desert their ships and join American ships. Obviously, impressment began a problem, and even “strengthened the idea that sailors had rights” (Gilje). The British Navy even “complained that the Americans enticed British seaman to desert and then refused to return them to their rightful ships” (Malcomson). Congress soon passed a law in 1976 that required each American-born seaman to have a “protection,” or a document stating his nationality, a detailed description of the seaman, and the location of his birth. The tactic was supposed to drastically decrease impressment of American seaman, however, the British Navy often ignored the protections (Gilje). Americans clearly wanted the impressment to cease, but when the British ignored their one attempt at stopping it, the Americans began playing dirty as well. The American Navy is almost looked at as the “good guy” in terms of impressment, however, looking deeper into it, there are cases reported by British seamen that show signs of American impressment. The most common case was the night of November 12, 1811, when Irish Seaman Charles Davis swam up on British frigate Havannah claiming he had just deserted forced servitude in the U.S. Navy. The United States had been “reciprocat[ing] impressment against the British” (Deeben). The tension between America and Great Britain was now at all-time high, and only needed one more incident to declare war on each other.
	Going back to the Napoleonic War between Great Britain and France, Great Britain not only began the act of impressment to grow their Navy size, but they also attempted to cutoff vital supplies going to France. However, the British had to ensure that their trade with Europe remained stable. Great Britain formed the Orders of Council of 1807, which did exactly that. In result, it also affected trade with America, who’s tension was already elevated. America realized that the Order of Councils made “United States sailors [lose] their freedom through wrongful impressment, the United States merchants [lose] their shipping contracts, and the United States farmers [lose] their markets for tobacco, grain, and cotton, the three big staples of American foreign exchange” (Caffrey). This realization was the last straw for America. Between the loss of thousands of sailors through wrongful impressment by the British Navy and a huge blow to the American economy in result of the Orders of Council, America decided it was time for war. On June 18, 1812, President James Madison signed the declaration of War on Great Britain (Trautsch). 

The War of 1812: An Annotated Bibliography
Caffrey, Kate. “London.” In The Twilight’s Last Gleaming: Britain vs. America, (40). New York: Stein and Day. (1977). 
This chapter mentions the affect that the Orders in Council had on the United States and its economy. It is a good source because the author provides a bibliography with historical sources. 
Deeben, John B. “The War of 1812: Stoking the Fires.” National Archive. Accessed October 4, 2017. https://www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/2012/summer/1812-impressment.html
	This website is providing a detailed description of impressment, examples of impressment, and the effects of impressment to the War or 1812. It is a good source because it is coming from the National Archives webpage. Also, the author has a Master’s degree in history from Pennsylvania State University. 
Gilje, Paul A. "Free Trade and Sailors' Rights": The Rhetoric of the War of 1812." Journal of The Early Republic 30, no. 1 (Spring2010 2010): 1-23. America: History and Life with Full Text, EBSCOhost (accessed October 4, 2017).
	This essay addresses the beginning of impressment for the British navy, how the men reacted, and the affects. It is a good source because it is published in an academic journal that is peer reviewed.
Malcomson, Robert. “Impressment.” In Historical Dictionary of the War of 1812, edited by Jon Woronoff, (255). Oxford: The Scarecrow Press, Inc. (2006). 
This section in the Dictionary refers specifically to what impressment is, what it was used for, and the reactions to impressment. It is a reliable source because it is a specialized reference dictionary on every detail of the War of 1812. The article comes from a historical dictionary that is published by The Scarecrow Press, Inc.
Trautsch, Jasper M. "The Causes of the War of 1812: 200 Years of Debate." Journal of Military History 77, no. 1 (January 2013): 273-293. America: History and Life with Full Text, EBSCOhost (accessed October 4, 2017).
This article debates the reasons for the War of 1812 by skimming the major ideas, but mainly bringing up smaller ideas of why the war began. It is a good source because it is an academic journal published by the Society for Military History.
