Second language in schools
	In schools all across the whole nation, it is a requirement for students to take a mandatory second language class.  Although many experts or teachers have claimed to feel that students taking one or more foreign languages are critical for student development, we need to reinforce to students the importance of why they are required to take that certain foreign language class that they sign up for. The need for the certain language is not critically used so is it really necessary? The world being globalized, is it essential for students to take the second language class. In the American school system the students are required to have at least one foreign language course in their 6 to 7 high school class schedules. Regardless of their race, gender, or cultural background they are required to be placed in the foreign language of their choosing. Students take the classes because college requirements require at least 3 years of the foreign language, if that they choose. Many sources believe that students that are required to take a foreign language is very wasteful and causes unneeded anxiety. Many scholars believe that second language should not be required to be taken if it is not desired.
	There are many ways to instill to students of why they should be required to take the second language classes in their high school. One way we can help the students understand why it is essential for them to take the second language class is to tell them why. In ensuring that they understand is to have one on one time in their many council meetings they are required to have with their advisors. It is important to tell the students of why it is necessary for them to take and pass their foreign language classes, so it can give incentive to students to apply themselves and try to pass. In many studies, scholars believe that having a vast language variety makes you more of a citizen and makes you better in the world. “What languages we speak (and where we speak them), how we use literacy, and who we speak to, are issues that are intimately entwined with questions of belonging, identity, status, and citizenship.” (CASEY BURKHOLDER & DIANE WATT pg 1).  In that article, the authors bring up the point that students that take a second language makes them a step ahead in the world due to the fact that they have a second language in their backpocket to use. Also, being able to access a second language makes them better citizens in their community. In the study of Casey Burkholder & Diane Watt, they examine that students learn in their communities through a variety of social media pathways and they retain many ways of information in that way. (Burkholder & Watt pg 2). 
In additional studies, students are actually put in large amounts of anxiety when put in classroom settings. They are under large amounts of stress during their classes, especially in their foreign language classes. As students, anxiety plays a great role in the academics of students because it makes students worry and not strive to their full potential due to the fear that they have the chance to fail. In an analysis by 2 scholars they came to a conclusion that due to recent studies learning a second language is one of the largest factors of anxiety in the classroom setting. “Many scholars agree that there is anxiety-provoking potential in learning a foreign language and have found that language learning difficulties could predict anxiety best in foreign language learning settings (Chan & Wu, 2004).”  (Mohammad Aliakbari & Mojtaba Gheitasi pg 53). The learning of a second language is challenging and causes anxiety that can be harmful to student developments and learning. In the studies it is correlated that second language and anxiety go hand-in-hand, in the sense that they cause an negative impact on the student's’ academics. In addition, the monolingual background students feel at a large disadvantage and contain even more anxiety than the other bi or multilingual backgrounds. (Alikabari & Gheitasi pg 53.). “Results of various studies on the effect of test anxiety on academic performance supported the idea that the high-test anxious students tended to score lower than low-test anxious students (McDonald, 2001).”  (Alikabari & Gheitasi pg 53.). So in taking the second language class it causes major anxiety and drops their grades in the class, and in the long run ultimately their GPA. Which is a big part of students future, and is ultimately will dig the student into a hole in which puts them in bad positions. Additional research was taken and it was justified that anxiety has a direct role in affecting students concentration and their comprehension. So with the compilation of the foreign language class being taken, on top of that, the anxiety plays a bigger role on that in which it makes it harder for the students to work and retain that information. Other studies were taken and they examined what could help students have less anxiety and it came to the conclusion that the communities that they live in can play a big part in that.  (Alikabari & Gheitasi pg 54.). Further on in the study of  Alikabari & Gheitasi they take many studies and they have analysis that comes to the ultimate conclusion that students under a substantial amount of anxiety do not perform well and that the cure can be making students more aware and offer more help that can be essential to students into what they are learning. 
In the classroom, the main thing that is most important is the teaches and how they teach the classroom. Many studies that showed that if teachers do not teach well, the student will not learn well. It is a global fact that is a common problem in a substantial amount of classrooms across the nation. There is certain guidelines that a teacher should follow to make sure each student is able to get the best  chance of learning and being able to prosper in that classroom setting. In a excerpt by Dr. Jesús izquierdo, he speaks about how each student development is dependent on how the teacher connects with the student, bilingual or monolingual. He then also speaks and analyzes how teachers work under different circumstances and different work situations. “From the outset of the study, the researchers knew that 38 Comunicar, 50, XXV, 2017 the schools had no access to internet. Thus, only item 9 focused on its use in class, considering that teachers could produce printouts or download materials from the internet for instruction (Egbert & Yang, 2004). nonetheless, this item had the lowest response rate in the teacher (28.5%) and learner (11.4%). (Dr. Jesús izquierdo pg 33-41). In the study it showed that the students are only as good as the teacher and what they have access to. 
Another element to consider is the amount of students that already speak more that one language and how they take the second language classes in perspective as well. “According to the 1990 federal census, there were 23.4 million Hispanics in the United States. It also indicates that the Hispanic population is moving from the rural areas to urban population centers and are found throughout the United States; over 60% of them live in California, New York, and Texas.” In the growing population of hispanic-Americans the second language classes will be obtained bt those students and they will not struggle as much as other students. In the rapid growth rate of the Hispanic population in the United States, it is one of the most compelling social developments in the last 25 years. Also, the Hispanics are projected to become the largest minority group in the United States between the years 2000 and 2025. Spanish speakers are by far the largest group among language minority students at both the elementary and secondary levels in the United States. (John M. Navas-Perez pg 4). In his study, he states that in the rising rate of Hispanic-Americans socially other races are doing themselves favors in a way because knowing how to communicate amongst each other is a smarter way to go. He also states from a study he has taken, that about 60% of the Hispanic children attended schools with minority enrollment of 50 % or more. (perez pg 5). In saying that in the study he accumulated majority of Mexican-American students are going to other places to get their education regardless of where they come from and their ethnic backgrounds. On the contrary, The segregation of Hispanic students has increased nationwide, and the the ethnic isolation is the linguistic isolation has increased as well. In his excerpt he also assesses how to distinct between “LED” students and also how it puts them at a disadvantage. It labels them wrong and that it is an injustice towards them. “Arias have argued that the term LEP reminds the students of their deficiency; therefore they suggest that "limited English proficient" be changed to "students acquiring English." (perez 13). Perez in his argument states that the gist of being bilingual is that the instruction in English and the native language, to facilitate academic progress and oral language and literacy skills in two languages" (New York State Education Department, 1991, p. 17). It provides limited English proficient students with content instruction in the native language and increasingly over time, in English, native with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission. language arts instruction, and instruction in English as a second language. (Perez pg 12-13).  
Students in the classroom setting have always been molded to be one way in the classroom learning how to access information they feel will help them in the pathway to life. School systems believe that the use of being bilingual or multilingual will be beneficial to their future. In another study taken by Oliver- John St. John he states that students are subject to being put on routines, norms and practices that among patterning behaviour in the classroom. (Oliver John pg 13). He then goes on and claims that students are not just “participants” in the life of the school community. (John 13).  Under studies, he is saying that schools put routines on students is not a good thing because it can kill creativity and put students in other positions that they are always being put into scenarios where they do the same thing every time. (John pg 13).  That in the bilingual students are being put in a routine and it might not be the best thing for the students to go through and it cannot be the best way for students to learn and get the most out of the experience of learning a second language. Also classrooms are marching on a different beat that it was on a lot of years ago. It is not the same use of dialogue that was used as before. It is changed regularly and kept recycled throughout the process and ultimately changed for each student. 
There is a large gap between races and also the certain percentages appears to be a gap between bilingual/bicultural persons' needs and the educational and counseling programs available to these individuals. (Margaret L. Dwyer pg 1). That growing gap between them is not a good thing in the classroom and also for students lives. Between bilingual/bicultural individuals may be extremely different than that of monolingual/monocultural persons. However, all too few attempts have been made to identify these differences, to evolve explanatory theories to account for these differences and to create effective programs that will facilitate positive self-conceptions, life planning skills and improved interpersonal relations for bilingual/bicultural persons. (dwyer pg 1). So, by speaking more than one language it is better for you in the long run, and can a positive effect on the lives of those who use it wisely. It can make you more aware of the uses that having a second language is. In having that in your arsenal it can make the person more valuable and want to be acquired in the world. “In spite of their excellent programs, they do not impact upon the majority of the Spanish speaking population's needs, especially in the areas of improved employment conditions, political influence, and economic and social mobility (Vontress, 1978).” (Dwyer pg 2-3). In the workforce it makes that person more useful if they are dynamic with speaking more than one language. So it is detrimental for young adolescents to take and maintain a good grade in their foreign language class. Keeping hispanics into the workforce are essential because they make up most of the country's population, so it would be smart for the adolescent to be able to have the second language of spanish as well as english. “Not only are Hispanics becoming the largest minority group, in addition, approximately eighty percent (80%,) of this group are forty-five years of age or younger.” (Dwyer pg 3). So a large quantity is part of the hispanic population, and would be a smart thing to make sure you can speak the language that many people in the U.S already speak. “Further, regarding language practice, a dominant factor in employment success, economic and social mobility (Vontress, 1978), 68.97. of members of the Spanish-speaking population identify Spanish as their "mother tongue", while only 28.8% identify English. Within the total population, Spanish has a base rate preference of 3.4%> while preference for English is 81.6%.”  (Dwyer 6). Large amounts of statistics go towards spanish speaking people so it is essential for them to take the class and have a great advantage in the world we know today. There are many reasons of why we should take the second language classes Lack of materials and staff trained to understand the unique developmental needs of the bilingual/ bicultural individual. Language barriers that inhibit meaningful communication. Cultural and class-bound values of the professionals that can lead to poor communication, misdiagnosis, and symptomatic relief rather than lasting developmental integration and change. Family ties and cultural values of the Spanish Speaking person that prevent the use of such facilities due to belief systems and interpersonal orientation to the family and community. (Dwyer 8). 
In conclusion due to many studies, it is a great and reliable idea to take a foreign language class in the world today, it can give you an advantage and create more opportunities for the student to succeed and prosper in the world today. Studies show that is a good idea so encourage young students to take the second language class in schools.




Works Cited
Works Cited
DWYER, MARGARET L. The Effects Of The Human Potential Seminar On The Self-concept, Life Purpose, And Interpersonal Relations Of Bilingual/bicultural (spanish-speaking) Individuals, Wayne State University, Ann Arbor, 1981, ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global: The Humanities and Social Sciences Collection, http://removed-this-url.com/.
Navas-Perez, John. An Exploration of Teachers Dealing with Linguistic and Cultural Diversity in their Bilingual Mathematics Classes, State University of New York at Buffalo, Ann Arbor, 2000, ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global: The Humanities and Social Sciences Collection, http://removed-this-url.com/.
Hacker, C. M. (2014). Quantitative survey of teachers' perceptions of english language learners in an urban school district (Order No. 3616900). Available from ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global: The Humanities and Social Sciences Collection. (1526305721). Retrieved from http://removed-this-url.com/

{St John, Oliver},
   institution = {Örebro University, School of Humanities, Education and Social Sciences},
   journal = {Language, Culture and Curriculum},
   year = {2010}
http://oru.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:710412/FULLTEXT02.pdf
