Sourced Memoir Essay
When one is presented with the dread filled question of “what is your identity?”, several different people would have several different answers. Professor James Fearon of Stanford University lists several possible answers for this ever-prevailing question. For one, the answer could be a simple, “I am…” fill in the blank. But on the other hand, the answer could be much more in depth and taken to a level of deeper complexity (Fearon 1). There isn’t a simple answer to the question of who I am, however there are certain aspects of my life that have helped shape me into who I am today. Not all of these things I have chosen, some have been assigned to me. But if it weren’t for all of these social categories that society has forced upon me, I wouldn’t be the true me that I am. 
I have been very fortunate in the life that I was born into. I didn’t choose it, but I am very thankful for it. I was born to two, working middle class parents, in a country that allows me to be free and express myself and my individuality. However, I was born into a society that casts labels and feels that they are necessary to our lives. One day that I can clearly remember being forced to label myself into these categories was the day that I had to take my SAT.
The dreaded test of all high school students: let’s all pay money to wake up super early on a Saturday morning, drive to some random high school in our area, sit with a bunch of strangers, and be forced to take a several hour-long exam that everyone is silently cursing in their mind; sounds like a great plan. On top of being forced to bubble in answers for math problems that I have never seen before in my life, read annoying passages, and write an essay that made no sense to me, I was forced to fill out what felt like 80 million bubbles about my “oh so important” demographic information. I was asked questions like name and grade, which made sense to me. But then I was asked my gender, race, religion, the area where I lived, and my parents’ educational experiences. At the time I thought that these questions had nothing to do with this horrific exam that I was about to take, but after learning about what different opportunities different people have it started to make a little more sense. I marked down that I was female, grade 11, Christian, from Anytown, USA, and then I stopped. My proctor came over to me and asked if I was done filling in all of the bubbles. When he looked at my sheet, he started to reprimand me for not filling out all of my information. I had left out race and ethnicity, yearly house-hold income, parents’ education, and a couple other things that I had felt to be pointless to this exam. I knew that they were only going to be used for statistical information and I politely explained that I was refusing to fill out these bubbles and did not care if I skewed this claimed important data. 
I realized then that I was a privileged white girl from an upper middle-class family. If I was a different race perhaps I would want to mark that down on the testing booklet to prove that I could be as smart as a white person or disprove any other stereotype that was being judged by those bubbles, but I felt that it was not a valid reason to waste my graphite. When I look back at that day, I can now tell that my refusal to fill in those bubbles was a result of me not wanting to force myself into categorize when I just viewed my persona as me.
One of the bubbles that I refused to fill in was in regard to my race and ethnicity. I was born in Anytown, USA to a family containing two parents, and two older siblings. I was born into a white family with standard European heritage. I never thought much about my race until I was forced to. I am aware of my privileges that come from my skin color and I am very fortunate for them, they just aren’t in the forefront of my mind. Since my ancestors came from the standard European countries (Germany, Whales, Hungary, etc.) I don’t have the current day issues of having middle eastern family and being fearful for my family’s safety throughout our daily lives. 
My family is an upper-middle class family. Both of my parents have jobs, and very decent paying jobs at that. Because of this I have been granted opportunities that other people may not have. They are able to pay for 75% of my college education. They were able to pay for the gas in my car so I could drive to school, because God forbid a senior in high school has to ride the bus. We have a four-bedroom two-bathroom house, in a welcoming neighborhood, in a decent school district. My parents both have college degrees and my mother has a master’s degree. It is because of these opportunities that I have my own opportunities that I am incredibly thankful for. 
Even though I agreed to bubble in some of the questions on the SAT that doesn’t mean that they are less important to me. Being a female is one of the most important labels that has been imposed on me. The image of a woman may seem to be weak but I find myself to be strong. My future career is one that is stereotypically “a man’s job”. Being a female in the science industry is one that isn’t common these days but I look forward to helping desegregate this career field. 
My religion is the one thing that is probably the most important to me. Being a Christian does more than just make me go to church on Sunday mornings. My religion has provided me with a community of people who think the same way that I think. Ironically, my future roommate for next school year went to the same church camp that I went to when I was younger. In the current state of the world, my religion receives less negative light than most others do. It is because I am Christian that I have the freedom to live as I please with no regulations controlling my life. 
Some categories in life have a less serious tone to them. I am a dancer, I have been for the past 15 years of my life. Dance has been more than just some fun exercise to me. When I walk into the dance studio I am able to leave all of the negative thoughts in my mind and focus on what my body is doing. Dance makes me feel alive and being on the stage is where I feel at home. Also, being a part of the same studio for the past 15 years has presented me with some of the strongest friendships that I have ever encountered. Being a dancer is one of the most impactful things in my life. I chose my college because they had a dance minor program available when a very small number of state schools in my state do. Dance has become the outlet in my life to allow me to be free and show who I truly am. 
According to Tori DeAngelis, “Social status isn’t just about the cars we drive, the money we make or the schools we attend- it’s also about how we feel” (1). It isn’t just the labels that have been imposed onto me, it’s how I let them impact me. Social categories can define a person if they allow them to. I personally chose to not let these categories define me in a negative light but to instead embrace them and let the positive light shine through. 


Works Cited 
Fearon, James. “What is Identity (as we now use the word)?” Unpublished manuscript, Stanford 
	University, 1999. https://web.stanford.edu/group/fearon-research/cgi-bin/wordpress/wp-
	content/uploads/2013/10/What-is-Identity-as-we-now-use-the-word-.pdf.

DeAngelis, Tori. “Class Differences.” American Psychological Association. Vol 46, No 2.  February 2015. http://www.apa.org/monitor/2015/02/class-differences.aspx.
