Collaborative Learning Through Experiential
 Learning Within Nursing Courses vs Individual Learning 
	The nursing field is a challenging scope of focus where another human’s well-being is priority over all. Passion is required and illness is everywhere. Sheryl S. Sandahl explains in her study: “Collaborative Testing as a Learning Strategy in Nursing Education”  that the necessities of a patient in regards to care is a team of health experts working together to provide the best care possible (Sandahl 1). In a hospital setting there is a vast majority of race, culture, and ethnicity roaming within. Nurses are required to work together as a team, think critically, and tackle loaded delegated tasks efficiently, and safely. My sister, Casey Smith, who has been a certified nurses aide (CNA) for 7 amount of years, and a licensed vocational nurse for 2 amount of years says, “I deal with different cultures and work collaboratively on a daily bases.”  experimental study groups are beneficial for any level of education or major, but cooperative study groups are most beneficial for students within nursing programs. Individual studying limits a student's resources to only what the student knows. Collaborative study groups allow nurses to touch base with diversity, critically thinking, teamwork, and become prepared for the medical environment, something traditional studying can not provide. Personal studying causes students to lose motivation, become uninterested in the learning process, and is only beneficial when new information is introduced. 
. I got the pleasure to interview, Riley, a nursing student who graduated from the Dominican university of California’s  nursing program. I asked her a series of questions based on her classes she had to take to receive her BSN, how much collaborative learning was involved, whether she formed study groups, and how helpful they were. She reported that the various medical and science classes she was required to attend were “heavy in work” and “could be very stressful at times.” She had to understand different aspects of the body, and its functions to be able to safely provide her patients with the best care possible. By conducting this interview, it shed a little light on what it takes to accomplish a nursing degree, and how collaborative studying helps nursing students succeed. Riley also informed me that there is a great amount of engagement within her classroom with her fellow students. Riley has met with colleagues on her own time to conduct study groups before examinations. She confirmed they “helped most of the time, but the classes can still be difficult.” In Ulrich and Glendon’s study of experiential learning, “In analyzing our student evaluations from over 200 college students taking our classes that employed interactive methods, it was found that group strategies do have multitude of students-recognized benefits” (Ulrich, Glendon 89). This positive result could be the answer to difficult times trying to prepare for the nursing environment. 
When most students hear the word “collaborative group” different definitions appear in their minds. Some might think of a coordinator who guides the group in the right direction, some might see team members, others may see an opportunity to do the minimal work to pass, or a way to meet with friends. Through collaborative groups are very beneficial, most students do not understand the fundamentals of a group. In the article “Collaborative learning; elements” Marjan Laal educates the components of a group are not merely direct meetings, either in person or computerized, and certainly not each individual member doing their small part, again minimal. Laal examines that a collaborative group consists of five elements: “Clearly perceived interdependence, considerable interaction, individual accountability and personal responsibility, social skills, and group self-evaluating” (Laal  2). Interconnection, communication, liability, personal obligation, communal ability, and self examination should be required in a group considering these qualities will allow groups to thrive while being able to bypass issues preventing group success. It may be argued that collaborative groups are miserable, inefficient, and a waste of time and learning, but that is only true if a group do not posses the qualities Laal emphasizes. There must be a sense of motivation to thrive before one can be part of an experimental group. Mentors stress students to always practice and polish two qualities, critical thinking and self observation (Ulrich, Glendon 3). When nurses get together after class to practice clinical skills, or study for an exam, critical thinking is being practiced for different thought processes are active, and peer evaluations of each others backings are being formed to find the best conclusion. This way, students can build off each other, and then later go back to reflect on their thought processes for their conclusions, find the flaws, and educate themselves on how to improve. 
The purpose of collaborative groups inside nursing criteria is to help students better retain information, grow as a learner and individual, and create exceptional nurses. “In a CL (collaborative learning) setting, members learn to do something together so that they can do it more easily when they are alone” (Laal 4). Working together will force students to break down the information, and rebuild it in a way they can understand. Then, the student is more confident performing, whether it be on a test or clinical skill evaluation unaccompanied. Ulrich and Glendon emphasize in chapter 4 that this collaborative process can be done in a number of ways such as: drawings, photographs, projects, study guide groups, video, etc. Collaborative groups can go deeper than just the obvious surface of working in sync to accomplish a common goal. To deal with different cultures one must be open minded, to be apart of a team one must be diligent, and to learn one must see, hear, and experience information from different perspectives. Cooperative studying is profitable, and it approves students to understand the merit of having an open multi-spectrum, being preserved, and various angles, which are important skills required for nurses to be able to provide adequate care for patients. My sister, who is soon returning to school for an RN’s (Registered Nurse) degree, explained to me during our informal interview that in everyday situations is applying skills she learned in the nursing program she attended through a series of experiential learning, working engagingly, applying her practice as a critical thinker, and ensuring the comfort of her patients. Ulrich and Glendon examine different aspects of interactive group learning and offer interesting information to chew on, “By tapping the student holistically (i.e. physically, intellectually, emotionally, and spiritually), students are more actively involved or connected to the learning experience” (Ulrich, Glendon 7). 
Collaborative studying has many positive results to offer students of nursing programs. It could enforce new study strategies that may be more efficient than the status quo of individual study sessions. In the article “Collaborative learning among undergraduate students in community health nursing” the three authors reveal by working with a group, students will improve their critical thinking skills and make the learning process a whole lot more intriguing, which will result in better outcomes than individual exertion could provide (Yang, Woomer, Matthews 1). This engagement between groups enables students to expand their knowledge by exposing them to different thought processes and training strategies. Sandahl’s study provided a result to exemplify this: “On both the Group Testing and Course Evaluations, students noted the importance of discussing and debating answers and hearing others’ perspectives or rationales” (Sandahl 5). Students must be able to back their reasoning, convince their audience that they are right, and critically think about new knowledge. Through group studying nursing students can become more time efficient, improve retention, and improve the overall quality of the end-product. 
There are several ways one can become prepared for assessments, projects, or the work environment, but there are only few that are actually effective. It is obvious that a hospital is a portal for universal ethnicities to come together for support in health. “Nurses are directed to collaborate within and outside the nursing profession to strengthen health systems, ensure provision of culturally sensitive services, and improve health outcomes across the age spectrum locally and globally” (Yang, Woomer, Matthews 1). This diversity in hospitals requires nurses to educate themselves in different cultures and traditions to understand how to respect a patient when providing care. Riley, graduated from Dominican University of California, shared her experience when she was caring for a patient during the last cycle of life, and the patient request a spiritual authority to bless their death before the passing. Study sessions could turn into culture traditional, as well as clinical skill studies; this advantage of working in study groups knocks two nursing stones at once: exposing students to different cultures and preparing for the caretaker position. 
Engaging in a group to cram information for stressful performance results from assessments and mentors can be very overwhelming for a nursing student. By working in a group the stress boulder can be equalled out between the members of the group, so the amount of panic towards the due date of an assessment, project, or skill performance will decline. “Further, collaborative learning increases self-confidence, reduces anxiety and improves access to faculty expertise” (Yang, Woomer, Matthews 2). This decline will take place because students will understand they have colleagues going through the same emotions, and will have an extra set of shoulders to share their agony with. 
It may be argued that no matter what, the learning process is up to an individual’s learning pace, which is true, but could cause a problem. In a study titled  “Creative Independent Learning for Developing Students Professional Competencies” discovered through a survey consisting of 80 students enrolled in a bachelor's degree program, “78% of the students apprehended the importance of independent learning but they are not motivated enough to implement this approach” (Red’ko Yuzhakova, Yanushevskaya 3). Students are unmotivated because the work is too difficult, or a student gets too overwhelmed with stress. In opposed to when being in a group, the overall learning experience becomes increasingly enjoyable due to being surrounded by fellow peers, and understanding they have each other to lean on. Students are granted to hit speed bumps at times when decoding medical terms, or understanding some system of the body, but when apart of a group other intellectuals are there to help get over that speed bump. In the article “Collaborative learning of clinical skills in health professions education: the why, how, when, and for whom” informs, “Moreover, social interaction can positively affect learners’ self-efficacy and motivation, which in turn may affect subsequent learning and performance” (Tolsgaard, Kulasegaram, Ringsted 2). Where motivation is an issue inside individual learning process, it may become more common within students if authorized to work together. Mentors can implement experiential learning to push students in the right track of learning while making the process more appealing.
Others may also argue that working in groups is just a diverse way to give information, and do not improve students retention at all. In a study of 52 nursing students, putting them through a series of assessments taken in groups, as well as individually. Sandahl detected “[T]here was no difference in retention for students taking examinations collaboratively compared to individually” (Sandahl 4). Testing collaboratively is a good approach when teaching nursing merit, but it must be understood everyone learns at their own pace still. Laal points out that knowledge is not something you can simply drain from one person to the other, it takes the individual's personal mental analyzation. Being apart of a group will, “[H]elp and encourage each other to learn. They do this by explaining what they understand and by gathering and sharing knowledge” (Laal 2). By implementing experiential learning requires nursing students to defend their conclusions, and critically think about how their answers are the most logical. 
This group studying method changes the whole game of the teaching-learning process in a number of ways. In the first chapter of Ulrich’s and Glendon’s novel, they review the effect collaborative learning has on the process and relationships in the teaching-learning process. The chapter begins by clarifying the “Learning Paradigm” thought up by John Locke, an English philosopher. Locke believed every student started like a blank canvas, and it was the teacher's responsibility to paint these canvases into painted intellectuals (Ulrich, Glendon 1). This starting point of the educator and learning process has done a great deal of success for the human race, but everything can be improved. Especially through the improvements of the medical industry and the caretakers position, a lot of new and advanced information has been discovered. This compels nurses to keep up with the pace of knowledge and new technology. Training cooperatively in the nursing field goes beyond simply cognitive knowledge, and begins bleeding into long-term retention, which will help nurses keep up with this fast pace of discovery.
Ulrich and Glendon give many examples of engaging tactics to get students more involved in experiential learning through collaborative culture. Chapter 3 of their novel exemplifies the “Pair and Share” strategy, where the educator probes a question, students are given a moment to think, the students discuss their answers to a partner, and then share with the class for feedback. The next strategy is called the “Roundtable” this is when students are organized in a circle, the students brainstorm over the question posed by the teacher, and then each student verbalizes and writes down their answers on a piece of paper. After, one student presents the paper for the entire group. This requires the use of critical thinking and students to defend their conclusions. “Roundtable is simple to use yet produces large volumes of information” (Ulrich, Glendon 30).
Individual learning simply provides short-term recall, in contrast to when nurses are able break down the fundamentals of knowledge, and examine it for retention. “Although students do need to know certain facts before they can apply and critically think about them, memorization should not be the end of the learning process but the starting point” (Ulrich, Glendon 2). The traditional lecture is a fine way to introduce material, but experimental groups is what seals the deal. Working together to clarify and rechew newly exposed information is where the learning process solidifies. Then, the educator's position begins to change into a filter of knowledge for students when they arrive with their in-depth questions after analyzing the lecture notes from different angles. 
The nursing field is an advanced curriculum that is difficult to master. It takes motivation, compassion, and the ability to work with a team to be able to survive in the medical environment My sister, Casey, informed me of the many hours spent up late at night studying. Through experiential learning nursing students are better able to take on the rigorous work, being more confident, and practicing their skills in practical situations. Situations that will occur in the medical work place. Individual learning only accomplishes short term memory, which then leads to short term memory loss after answering the last question on a test. Collaborative learning calls for nursing students to come together, practice critical thinking skills, find effective retention strategies, and develop more efficiently as caretakers. 



Works Cited
Casey Smith, Over the phone, November 6, 2017.
Kinyon, Jane, et al. “A Collaborative Approach to Group Experiential Learning with
Undergraduate Nursing Students.” Journal of Nursing Education, vol. 48, no. 3, 2009,
pp. 165–6.

Laal, Marjan. “Collaborative Learning; Elements.” Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
vol. 83, 2013, pp. 814–818.

Riley Johnson, Over email, November 3, 2017. 

Red’ko, et al. “Creative Independent Learning for Developing Students’ Professional
Competencies.” Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 214, 2015, pp. 319–324.

Sandahl, Sheryl. “COLLABORATIVE TESTING as a Learning Strategy in Nursing Education.”
Nursing Education Perspectives, vol. 31, no. 3, 2010, pp. 142–7.

Tolsgaard, Martin G, et al. “Collaborative Learning of Clinical Skills in Health
Professions Education: the Why, How, When and for Whom.” Medical
Education, vol. 50, no. 1, 2016, pp. 69–78.

Ulrich, Deborah L., and Kellie J. Glendon. Interactive Group Learning: Strategies for Nurse
Educators. New York, Springer, 1999.
