
How Mother Nature can ruin an engineer’s career.
Everything we see and use was created by an engineer. They have been around since 4000 BC and, to this day, create some of the best advancements in how we live. Societies wouldn’t have made it this far if it wasn’t for them. They created the homes that we live, the electronics that we use every day, the water system that provides us with clean water, and so much more. To become an engineer is a huge honor. Unfortunately, a major problem in being an engineer is that society expects them to create indestructible structures that can handle anything the environment throws at them. If the engineer’s design fails it could lead to distrust, job loss, or even a whole career downfall. There have been many cases where well known and experienced engineers have had their licenses revoked because their structures were not able to  withstand the  environment. In those instances, it was not their fault ,however, some people think otherwise. People argue that an engineer deserves to have their reputation or career ruined because they didn’t consider all environmental factors, including unforeseeable factors, when designing their structure. Whatever the case, before making a decision that could ruin a well-experienced engineer's future, employers and contractors should exam the design and all other factors before attributing blame on the engineer’s expertise.
One example of a well-known and experienced engineer that had his career ruined due to environmental factor is Richard Trevithick. In Titley Arthur’s article “Richard Trevithick: The engineer and the man” Arthur describes Richard Trevithickas being well-known for his railway locomotive designs. Trevithick worked on a wide range of projects, including mines, mills, dredging machinery, a tunnel under the Thames, military engineering, and prospecting in South America. He received an assignment to construct a railway through a tunnel, which he had done many times before. He created the design for the tunnel and everything was according to plan, until large amounts of water inside the mountain caused the tunnel to collapse. No worker died but several were injured and some were trapped in the tunnel. The mountain had a large amount of water and with all the activity going on the tunnel’s foundation couldn’t support itself. When word got out about the incident his career was heavily affected (Arthur). Due to Trevithick’s extensive history of work, this accident should not have been the cause of his career downfall. This had been the first time he ran into a mountain that had liquid inside of it. How was he to know that there was water inside the mountain? With the technology that was available in his time, it was impossible to tell what a large mass contained, especially a solid mountain. If this had happened in today’s modern time, then yes, employers should’ve stopped hiring him, but in his time, there was no way to know what was inside the mountain. This incident caused serious problems to his career and his reputation. It is shameful that talent like his went to waste. Unfortunately, Trevithick is not the only one to face this kind of problem.
Another well-known and experienced engineer whose career was ruined due to unforeseen environmental factors was Leon Moisseiff. Leon Moisseiff was a leading suspension bridge engineer and was well regarded and awarded for his work. All that changed when the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, a bridge that Moisseiff created, collapse. In Patha K. Chakrabarti's article “Overview of Tacoma Narrows bridge floating caisson design” we see how this incident unravels.  The bridge was built in 1940 and was created by Leon Moisseiff himself. It was his first bridge design as a leading engineer. It was the third longest bridge ever built and was what Moisseiff called “the most beautiful bridge in the world.” Construction of the bridge started in 1983 and was finished in 1940. Unfortunately, the bridge did not last that long. When constructing the bridge workers said the wind would cause it to twist and bend. On November 7, 1940, the bridge collapsed due to the strong winds. Luckily no one was on the bridge when it collapsed. When this event occurred, Moisseiff lost his title of leading engineer and his career was horribly affected (Chakrabarti). Just like  Richard Trevithick, Moisseiff should not have been punished for his design. His design was good, simple, and it would get the job done. Moisseiff took into consideration all possible factors when creating his design. One may ask, did he not take into consideration the wind? Well no. The area where the bridge was built didn’t have strong winds. The area did receive wind,  but never as strong enough to compromise the structure. Nature is uncontrollable and that year the winds were especially strong. Moisseiff reputation could have been saved if they had stopped the construction of the bridge. If they had ceased construction when the workers noticed minor bending, a well-experienced engineer would have continued to leave a legacy.          
Many people may argue that  engineers deserve to be out of a job because they didn’t consider all environmental factors while designing the project. In Jinkook Yang’s article “Utilization of contradiction for creating design alternatives in construction value engineering” the author mentions the fundamentals of creating a project. When an engineer creates a design, it must be safe for the public to use. There should be nothing that can cause harm to the public. For the other factor, an engineer must consider any possibility while designing a structure. They are to get data and information on the area that they are working on. They have to look into the history of the area and figure the worst environmental impact that can occur.. Using the information they gather they are to design the structure for environmental factors it will face (Yang). This is the reason why they blame these engineers for their failure. For example, if they had created a structure in an earthquake zone, then they must include earthquake shockers. If they fail and the structure collapse, then the blame goes to the engineer who designed the structure. When an engineer finishes the design, it must be able to withstand whatever comes its way. If the engineer didn’t account for the smallest errors or any unforeseeable factors, it is their fault. If the engineer didn’t go back and consider all the factor like the environment or the geography, then they deserve whatever is going to happen to them. After all, it is for the public’s safety and the last thing they want is for the people to get hurt. 
Engineers are expected to create structures that can withstand anything and everything. The environment is unpredictable and even the most well thought out structure can fall due to its power. There have been cases where well known and experienced engineers have had their licenses revoked because their structure couldn’t handle the strong environment and most of the time it isn’t their fault. People argue that an engineer deserves to have their reputation or career ruined because they their structures failed to withstand all possible factors. Whatever the case, what is happening to them is unfair. There is no such thing as a perfect structure, the environment is unpredictable, and every structure can fall victim to it. This is happening to experienced engineers even though they have year of experience and well developed portfolios of work. They know what they are doing. If the environment is what damages the design, they should not suffer a career downfall, maybe just a minor setback.  If the engineer simply ignored such factors, then they do deserve to  lose their licenses. It’s hard to see experienced engineer’s careers ruined due to one failed project. After all, they are essential for today's growing society. 







































Work cited:
Arthur, Titley. “Richard Trevithick: The Engineer and the Man.” Richard Trevithick: The
Engineer and the Man, 1 Jan. 2010, pp. 1–308. Engineering Village , doi:10.1017/CBO9780511711169.
Chakrabarti, Partha K. “Overview of Tacoma Narrows Bridge Floating Caisson
Design.”Overview of Tacoma Narrows Bridge Floating Caisson Design, vol. 1, 20 June 2004, pp. 465–478., doi:10.1115/OMAE2004-51230.
Yang, Jinkook. “Utilization of Contradiction for Creating Design Alternatives in Construction
Value Engineering.” Utilization of Contradiction for Creating Design Alternatives in Construction Value Engineering, vol. 18, ser. 2, Mar. 2014, pp. 355–364. Engineering Village, doi:10.1007/s12205-014-0284-x.
