The Canterbury Tales and Catholicism
	In Chaucer’s general prologue of The Canterbury Tales, the narrator provides brief portraits of each pilgrim. Several different men and women of the church are included within these descriptions. Although it is never explicitly stated, it can be argued that Chaucer is using the Pardoner and the Friar as illustrations for the corruption of the Roman Catholic Church.
The narrator introduces the Pardoner from the beginning as a man who loves money. Everything he does in life is oriented toward the acquiring and maintaining of wealth. This is quite a scandalous attitude for a man of the church, especially for a Pardoner who has power over certain church funds. Even further, the Catholic Church emphasizes the importance of spiritually-directed living as opposed to materialistically-directed, even encouraging monks to take a vow of poverty. In his portrait, however, the Pardoner is displayed as a greedy hypocrite. 
	The Pardoner’s profession is exactly what the name suggests—the church sends him to travel around, pardon sins, and sell indulgences. Similar to “get-out-of-jail-free” cards in the board game Monopoly, indulgences are guaranteed to lessen time in purgatory and can even be bought for other people. This practice is abused by the church in Chaucer’s day and morphs into a source of money for the church as opposed to a gift for the people. The Pardoner mirrors this almost exactly, valuing the wealth that results from the indulgences instead of the people to which he should be ministering.
The Catholic Church has venerated holy relics for hundreds of years and especially adored these objects during Chaucer’s time. Many relics from martyrs or saints are believed to have healing qualities and it is this belief that motivates many pilgrims to visit famous grave sights and travel to see relics in person. It is widely believed at the time of Chaucer that even by simply visiting the grave or death place of a martyr or saint was a healing and transformative experience. It is certain that many, if not all, of the pilgrims in the Canterbury Tales are on a trip to visit the shrine of Thomas Beckett for these very reasons. 
In addition to selling papal indulgences, the Pardoner offered ‘holy’ relics on his travels. However, his aforementioned love of money distorts this common practice of distributing holy items. There are numerous examples that illustrate this. In one stanza, it is written that he carries with him an ordinary pillow case that he claims is “Oure Lady veil” (696-7). This fraudulent piece of fabric that he claims belonged to Mary is just one of his tricks to bring in a couple of pennies. Without a doubt, the majority of his money comes from these fake relics. In fact, these falsehoods generate quite a bit of revenue. The narrator notes that the pardoner makes more money in one day “than that the person [parson] gat in monthes twaye” (705-6). He describes these fake items to the other pilgrims in an almost bragging manner, readily admitting that the items are false. He informs them that he carries around animal bones and sells them “with feined flaterye and japes”, telling the people that they are the true bones of holy men, thus making them “his apes” (707-8). This reflects the greed of the Roman Catholic Church during Chaucer’s time; fake relics were sold to increase the church’s wealth despite the immorality of the practice. The narrator’s description of the Pardoner, especially his inclusion of the Pardoner’s pride about his wrongdoings, shows that he is slyly satirical.
In the Catholic Church, confession and absolution is practiced for the forgiveness of sins. The formula is rather simple: a sinner confesses to a priest, the priest orders a penance, and then the sinner is absolved of the sins previously confessed. Many priests in Chaucer’s time practiced this in an unholy and blasphemous manner. The Friar in The Canterbury Tales is no exception. For example, instead of ordering humble prayers and true contrition as penance, the Friar takes large sums of money in return for absolution, or forgiveness. This Friar, Hubard, works in the church as a parish priest but is also “a licenciat [licensed to hear confessions]” (219). Despite this license to conduct confessions and his profession as a priest, he never cares to hear confessions and commands that “in stede of weeping and prayeres, / men mote yive silver to the poore freres.” (231-2). Hubard’s justification for this immoral practice is that donating money to poor friars is a sign of penance, “for unto a poore ordre for to yive / is signe that a man is wel yshrive [absolved]” (225-6). However, donating money is in no way connected to a person’s heart or attitude toward past sin. While it is certainly possible for a repentant sinner to offer money with a pure heart, it is all the more likely that someone would find it easier to “pay” for absolution and walk away with false assurance. This love of money is so prominent in both Hubard and the Pardoner that it can reasonably be concluded that the men represent the worst parts of the Catholic Church as it existed in Chaucer’s day. The narrator’s decision not to condemn these practices in his description and instead mockingly tolerate them as if the evil actions were fine is another example of underlying satire.
With all this said, it can be suggested that perhaps Chaucer is simply writing about the diversity of humanity. The group of pilgrims described in the prologue all portray unique characters. He did include pilgrims that reflected the Catholic Church in a horrible way, but it can be argued that he also included sincerely religious characters. In addition, many of the other pilgrims that weren’t involved in the church committed sinful actions and had horrible personalities. However, the characteristics and actions of the immoral pilgrims parallel many of the most prominent issues in the church of Chaucer’s day. It may also be argued that Chaucer is just providing an honest look at the state of humanity. This wouldn’t necessarily negate the idea that he is reflecting the dishonesty of the Catholic Church—in fact, it strengthens the argument in affirming that man’s natural state is one of sinfulness and prone to fail.
Within the characters of the Pardoner and the Friar, Chaucer is exposing a few of the depraved practices of the Catholic Church within these men’s actions and attitudes. Writing clever way that, while seeming to praise the characters, Chaucer subtly mocks their insincere piousness. The result is an amusing work sprinkled with both satire and historical components.
