 
Everybody matures! 
Kambili like most other teenagers had to find her own way and comfort zone. In the book, Purple Hibiscus, Kambili had been one of the main characters who you see would collect and build on everything she went through. In Purple Hibiscus, Kambili was once a child who would never speak up for herself, until after a while of her visiting her Aunt Ifemoa and her cousins (who can be very outspoken) in Nsukka. Having to all of a sudden be around Amaka daily forced Kambili to mature and to stand up for herself or people will continue to talk to her ant type of way, Kambili feelings for Father Amadi made her mature because she had put her trust in him Kambili knew growing feelings for Father Amadi was a huge step, and also Kambili shows how she matured when she started speaking up and back to her father who was an overly religious man and was an authoritarian parent. Kambili finally realized the ins and outs when becoming a young adult and she is now a character who can and will stand up for herself and state her opinion.
Kambili and JaJa visited Aunt Ifeoma and her cousins in Nsukka for a while.  Meantime, while being in Nsukka, Amaka would constantly side talk about Kambili, about how she was raised, and how she comes from a family of money, she would also speak on how Kambili does  not speak up for herself, Aunt Ifemoa said to Kambili “”(). Kambili knew that she would have to break out of the habit of not responding when someone is speaking to her as well as she knew that she would have to speak up for herself and make herself heard of people will forever talk down on her. Amaka knew that eventually Kambili would respond to the things she would say about her. Amaka offently wondered about how Kmbili and JaJa were, she once asked “”(). Amaka does not really understand and see how Kambili and JaJa werent raised to be very outspoken although JaJa had begun putting his foot down and putting things in order. Kambili reached and grewout after being with Amaka and receving such negativity for a while.
Kambili met Father Amadi while visiting in Nsukka, she instantly connected with Father Amadi. Trusting someone is a part of maturing especially in Kambili’s case. Kambili knew that she could never tell anything that woud occur within her home with her, her parents, or JaJa.Kambili knew not to lie but she also knew not to tell the truth so she would make up something along the lines of what really happened. Kambili eventually grew feelings for Father Amadi as how Kambili believes Father Amadi feels about her.  Kambili knew she had grown feeligs for Father madi when she wanted to tell him what was going on with her but she stopped and remembered that they do not tell anyone and also Kambili knew she was gaining feelings for Father Amadi when she took her with him when the children played football and also when she took her to get her hair done.  Kambili had to mature to see and understand who Father Amadi was and also who she was too.  A reader can tell the change in Kambili personality once she had come in  contact with Father Amadi.
Everyone knew not to speak back to Papa. Kambili would never speak up nor back to Papa. It has always been JaJa, after visiting Nsukka and Kambili returned home you could see the shift in her attitude and when she began speaking back to Papa the reader could tell the areas where she has grown and changed into a young adult. Kambili was no longer the little girl whom Papa though she would forever be. Kambili made herself clear and understood, she was not disrespectful about anything she would say.
Kambili has over all changed for the better. Kambili grew to be something she always knew she was. Someone who began speaking out and not just holding things in. Kambili has made a better image for herself, in situation Kambili knew what to do and what to say after a while of thinking but not speaking what would be on her mind Amaka judgements, Father Amadi support, and Papa strict ways shaped Kambili into the person she had become.  In Purple Hibiscus Kambili whom had been the narrator who also the main character you tell would have a plot twist during the story. 


Work cited
Adichie, Chimamanda, Purple Hibiscus, Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, Publishers, 2012.
