Abstract
I am conducting a study on which would be a better option for student athletes. This is a study based on three categories: injury rate, time consumption, and by asking athletes who have played both versions of the sport which they prefer. The research is aimed to find if most people will prefer football even though its risk for injury, and time consumption will be higher for less time to spend on academics.
Introduction
I am trying to investigate which version of football student-athletes will prefer when given the benefits of both. Injuries would naturally happen more often in contact football due to repeated abuse on the body from hitting. According to one study I have reviewed, the total number of injuries playing flag football dropped 54% compared to the number of injuries playing traditional full-contact football (Kaplan 2014). The category of injury that was reduced the most by playing flag football was hand and wrist injuries. As one could assume, flag football is proven to be much safer than contact football. The risk for an ankle sprain or leg injury is still apparent, but the largely reduced hand injury and head injury rate makes the game much safer. 

This is also apparent with the NFL (and other football organizations) stricter rules on blind side hits (hits to a player when he is not looking ahead) and head-first contact. "Most injuries sustained during participation in youth football are minor, including injuries to the head and neck," according to the policy statement. "The incidences of severe injuries, catastrophic injuries, and concussion, however, are higher in football than most other team sports and appear to increase with age." (Haelle 2015). This study shows that football has the highest rate of concussion for any team sport, despite having lower total injury rates than wrestling and gymnastics. Yet flag football has a lower injury rate than all three and has a much lower rate of concussion than contact football since players only pull each others flags rather than tackle.

Football teams usually have very long workouts and practices, and tends to be highly time consuming. Whereas flag football would require less time and ultimately help students in terms of rest, studying for school or college, and for more social time. “Using data from Clemson University, we find a negative association between wins and academic performance.” (Hernandez-Julian 2014). This study went on to also show that these trends continued outside of the athletic season, and that these trends may even work against women more than men. In this we can conclude that from the long hours of working out and practicing football, grades begin to slip. Most colleges have tutors specialized for their athletes yet it is still apparent that football hurts academic performance. While there is no evidence for or against flag football, I would infer that since there would be less need to practice and lift constantly (because the game does not involve hitting, and is played with less players on the field) that the academic performance of flag football players would be higher.
Methodology
To be a part of this ethnographic study, I chose participants for my interviews under one criteria; they had to have played both contact football and flag football. It did not matter how long they had played either version of the sport, as long as they played both. I found thee participants easily through playing Intramural Flag Football at my school University. I found my final interviewee playing club baseball, as he has played both versions of football. The age range I chose to interview was from 18-21 years old. I also set up a poll on the popular app Twitter. From the poll I discovered which sport was more popular to my friends. The results came in majority from high school and college students, with a mixture of other various age ranges up to 50.

With my interviewees, I met them according to their schedule. I conducted these interviews at a few locations. The most common places were our university’s library, the student center, or in my dorm Building E. I asked them a series of questions for my data. After this I put up a public poll on Twitter, this was to get an idea of what the general public thinks about the issue.

I will use the data I have collected to determine what most players think about both sports. I will compare the benefits of playing flag football to traditional American football through statistics and making inferences on this data. This way the readers can get an understanding of how athletes in each sport think and make conclusions on where each sport has gone wrong. 

I will take all interview responses and create a table of the data, and will do the same with my poll. This will allow readers to easily see patterns in these responses and to make their own conclusions. I will use this to compare each sport’s benefits to the player and the public. 
Results
My results came to find that every student-athlete that I interviewed prefered contact football over flag football. Even though they all agreed that flag football gave the student-athlete more benefits than traditional football.  The students first agreed that flag football was far safer than traditional football. Seven of my interviewees reported that they had an injury that kept them away from the game for two or more weeks. One student Casey Smith says “I cracked a rib once during high school, and I was out for three weeks.” He was the team’s kicker and did not play defense or offense during his career. Riley Johnson claims “I sprained my wrist and had to sit out for two weeks. I hated it.” On top of these two of the students had each tore their ACL tendons. They were both in recovery for a full ten months, and could missed entire seasons during the injury. All nine participants responded to have minor injuries. Most athlete reported sore necks, headaches, and bruises and small pains all over the body. One of the nine students, Kerry Jones had a broken finger during our flag football season that did not heal for 2 weeks. Skyler Williams reports “I twisted my ankle once or twice, but I’m always good to play the next week.” From this I can say that injuries are far more common in contact football, which is because of all the physical abuse the game demands. No one really gets touched much in flag football, making it safer.

Another benefit that flag football posed to our athletes was time. Contact football teams often practice for two hours, four days a week. On top of this they have games on Fridays, most of the time these games last from 7:30 PM to 10 PM, without including the driving time to the field, and warm-ups. After the long week, on Saturdays the teams meet in the morning and watch film to fix their weak spots, and find the weak areas of opponents. All nine interviewees reported football taking up ten or more hours of the week. Six students claimed that these conditions had hurt their academic work. Casey Smith, on the other hand, says “Football always motivated me to keep my grades up so I could play on Fridays.” Kerry Jones and Pat Brown claims otherwise saying “It takes away from schoolwork and studying”, which makes sense. On the other hand, we only had three practices for flag football, each only lasting one hour. Our team ended with two wins and two losses in our season. None of the athletes report having issues with school work during the flag football. This shows that flag football has another important benefit to the contact counterpart.

Even after the students answered that flag football posed more benefits to them all nine reported to prefer contact football to flag football. Harper Miller says “There’s a certain feeling you get when you practice every day and go through hell together on a real (contact) football team. You can’t get that feeling anywhere else.” Bailey Davis tells me “I had too much fun playing football, from the nerves before a game to hitting people, that type of feeling doesn’t come from flag football.” Another three participants reported having adrenaline rushes before and during football games that they do not feel during any other sport. I concluded that most athletes just prefer football no matter the risks. 
Work Cited
Kaplan, Y., Witvrouw, E., Myklebust, G., Nyska, M., Palmanovich, E., & Victor, J. (2014, April 1). The epidemiology of injuries in contact flag football. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 48(7), 616. Retrieved from  http://removed-this-url.com/

Hernandez-Julian, R., & Rotthoff, K. W. (2014). The impact of college football on academic achievement. Economics of Education Review, 43, 141+. Retrieved from  http://removed-this-url.com/

Haelle, T. (2015, November). AAP backs zero tolerance for headfirst hits in football. Pediatric News, 49(11), 8. Retrieved from h http://removed-this-url.com/
