Purple Hibiscus and Violence
Purple Hibiscus, by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, is about the life of a fifteen-year-old girl, Kambili Achike. She lives in Enugu, Nigeria with her father, Papa, mother, Mama, and older brother, Jaja. Her father is a strict man, so Kambili and Jaja were raised scared to speak and do things only to please their father. When Nigeria began to deteriorate, Papa sent Jaja and Kambili to his sister house, Aunty Ifeoma, in Nnsukka, Nigeria, and that is when things start to change for the both of them. They begin to develop their own personality's and make their own decisions. Throughout the novel, Adichie broadcast a lot of themes and symbolism. One theme that emerges from the novel is violence because it is often used as a defense mechanism by the assaulting family, threatening government, and rioting students.  
Growing up inside of a Catholic house, you would not think Kambili's family is assaulting, the novel says otherwise. Papa maybe a God-fearing Catholic, but he is the cause of domestic violence and abuse within their household. Every time he abuses his kids, he makes sure they know it's for their own good. Kambili disobeys Papa by not telling him that her granddad was living with them at Aunty Ifeoma's house. "'You should strive to be perfection. You should not see sin and walk right into it.' He lowered the kettle into the tub, tilted it toward my feet. He poured the hot water on my feet slowly...The pain of contact was so pure, so scalding, I felt nothing for a second then I screamed." (Adichie 194) Papa felt that is necessary to use violence towards his daughter to prove that pain is what she will feel every time she sins. He also abuses his wife, Mama. He beats Mama so much that she has had several miscarriages. Mama is submissive so she listens to everything her husband tells her to do. She also believes that if she leaves him, she will have nowhere to go, which is why she tolerates the abuse. When Papa suddenly dies, she reveals to Kambili and Jaja that she killed him. "I started putting the poison in his tea before I came to Nsukka. Sisi got it for me; her uncle is a powerful witch doctor." (Adichie 290) She believed that the only way she could defend herself, and her kids, is by killing him instead of leaving him, which she was so fearful of doing.
By the same token, the government also brings violence in the novel by assaulting multiple people.  Papa's friend, Ade Coker, is a victim of the government. He worked alongside Papa with The Standard, a newspaper that was created by Papa. The Standard is a fearless newspaper that talks about the corruption and the "truth" (Adichie 5) about Nigeria's government. Ade Coker had been arrested and tortured for one of the multiple stories he put out talking about the "Head of State and his wife has paid people to transport heroin abroad, a story that questioned the recent execution of three men and the real drug barons were." (Adichie 38) The government does not like to be talked about in a negative way because it is threatening their authority. Since Coker is loyal to Papa, he continues to work with The Standard even though they both know what the government and solders will do to them, but Papa had an advantage because he was wealthy so it was least likely for him to get arrested. In spite of the consequences Ade Coker faces, he continues to put out stories criticizing the government causing his death by a letter bomb. Because the government was so strong and threatening, Papa says "I should have protected him." Government, military, and police abuse is common in Nigeria.  In Criminal Force: Torture, Abuse, ad Extrajudicial Killings by the Nigeria Police Force by Open Society Foundations (OSF), the NOPRIN monitors did a research experiment for police interactions in Nigeria. "As a result, the report’s researchers narrowed their focus to investigating and reporting on the four most frequent complaints received during field monitoring: police killings, torture, rape and sexual violence, and extortion." (OSF 29) The threats and assassination of Ade Coker was not shocking to the family because it was common for the authorities to abuse their power, it was only hurtful because of the position he had in their life.
Equally important, the students from Aunty Ifeoma's school, the Institute of African Studies, also brings violence into the novel by rioting. The Institute of African Studies faced two student riots: when the institution first opened and during the corruption of Nigeria. The first riot began when the institution first opened, students were complaining about not having light and water and not being able to study (Adichie 131). The second riot started because they did not have running water, light, or petrol so they wanted to get ride the sole administrator. They are so tired of the universities' circumstances that they "set the sole administrator's house on fire; even the guesthouse behind it had burned to the ground. Six university cars had been burned down, as well." (Adichie 229) The actions of the students cause the university to shut down because the damages were so grand. They also caused a lot of staff to be fired, like Aunty Ifeoma, because the university lost trust in their workers. The government sent people to Aunty Ifeoma's house to raid her house and look for documents that has to deal with the start of the riots. The government also did this to try scare and silence Aunty Ifeoma since she is one of the professors speaking about the sole administrator. The students' riot shows the violence in Nigeria and violence is caused by anger. The corruption of Nigeria has affected everybody, and now students cannot get their education because of the shutdown of the university, caused by their riot, and the government still wants to silence their citizens.
In conclusion, multiple themes arise in Purple Hibiscus, by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, with the inclusion of violence because of the usage of it from the assaulting family, threatening government, and rioting students. The author shows violence throughout the entire text to show how the corruption of Nigeria affected the country. The corruption caused things like abuse, riots, and murder because of the unfairness of the system which caused people to become angry. The author also shows that violence is a part of Nigeria's everyday lifestyle by telling readers about past events and character inferences about things that would happen in the future, which came true. The corruption was the cause of a lot of unfortunate events in the novel which was also done by the act of violence.














Work  Cited
Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple hibiscus. Anchor Books, 2004.
Criminal force: torture, abuse, and extrajudicial killings by the Nigerian Police Force.  Open Society Institute, 2010
