Rhetorical Essay 
Maya Angelou is considered to be a great author form numerous author and reader. She 
has won numerous awards and has written many novels. An example of one of her famous books 
is Letter to My Daughter. In this book Maya explains the hardship she has faced through Johnny 
Thomas the main character of her book. All of these events are based on her actual experience. 
In an excerpt from her book she explains where she grew up, how her life was growing up, her 
pregnancy, and giving birth to her son. Angelou was able to make this fine piece of literature by 
using several rhetorical methods. Each one was used in a way that enhanced what already a great 
piece of literature. While reading the excerpt of Letter to My Daughter Angelou used the 
rhetorical device pathos, ethos, logos, style, and arrangement in order to get her point across to 
her readers. 
 	One reason why Angelou was successful in Letter to Daughter was because she used 
pathos.  In “letter to my daughter” Angelou does a great job in setting up the emotion of Johnny. 
One can clearly tell the emotion that she is feeling. An example of this will be when she talks 
about the world she was growing up. She explains how she is facing a constant struggle against a 
condition of surrender. She then goes into details how her submission is due to the idea that 
black people were inferior to white people, who she saw rarely (Angelou par 4). As one can tell 
the reader knows exactly what the character is feeling at that given time. At the same time, they 
also know the cause of that emotion which is feeling inferior to the whites. Which is weird because as she states their rarely any whites. This shows how insecure she is due the saying that 
whites are better than blacks. In Nan Johnson article “Reader-Response and the Pathos Principle” 
talks about how he argues with the reader's response to the text. Then he explains the essential 
premises of rhetorical theories of audience response, or pathos. This is influenced not only by the 
frame of the mind of the reader but by the structure of the text (Johnson 152-153). Angelou 
makes sure that the reader knows exactly what is going on with Johnny that way the reader 
knows the emotion that should be felt based on the structure of the text. Another example of 
pathos is when she got pregnant due to action (Angelou paras 40-41). When she got pregnant she  
“left a note on his pillow saying, "Dad, I am sorry to bring disgrace to the family, but I have to 
tell you that I am pregnant." I didn’t sleep that night.” (Angelou paras 48) The reader cannot help 
but feel sorry for her. Back then teenage pregnancy is considered a disgrace to the family. It isn’t 
as accept as it is today. Even though a terrible thing has happened to Johnny Angelou doesn’t 
want her reader to feel towards her but feel happy. In Johnson article, he explains how writers 
sometimes make the emotion change of the readers on what they originally thought (Johnson 
155). Angelou use this method in order to switch the reader's emotion from sorry or pity to 
happy. This can be seen Johnny had the baby. Instead of feeling sorry for what she done she 
accept it and used it to get her life together and was proud to have the baby (Angelou). Which is 
the emotion that Angelou wants her readers to feel. Angelou use pathos in order to show the 
emotion that the writer wanted her viewers to feel.   
Another rhetorical device the Angelou form the excerpt Letter to My Daughter is ethos. 
In Walter Goldschmidt article “Some Notes on the Origin of "Ethos" he explains that the best 
form of ethos are events that have actually happen to the writer (Goldschmidt 291). In the expert 
letter to my daughter Johnny was born in Missouri, she ended up living with her grandma in 
Arkansas, had a brother name Bailey, and had a baby (Angelou). All of these events that Johnny 
experience were based off Maya Angelou's life. This supports Goldschmidt statement that all 
best form of writing come from real life example. When one reads the expert all of the feelings 
that one reads seem real. Angelou used the feeling that she felt in her life and added it in Letter 
to My Daughter. She uses ethos to show to other women that she has experienced the same thing 
and that she two knows what it feels to go through what they are going through. Angelou use 
ethos in order to connect to her readers and show that she knows what she is talking about using 
actual experience.   
Another rhetorical device that is used in the excerpt letter to my daughter is logos. 
Everything that she has wrote has a reason why she wrote it. For example, when Johnny got 
pregnant. It says , “My voice became deep and husky, and my naked image in the mirror gave no 
intimations that it would ever become feminine and curvy. I was already six feet tall and had no 
breasts. I thought maybe if I had sex my recalcitrant body would grow up and behave as it was 
supposed to behave.” (Angelou paras 37-38) As people go into their teens they start worry about 
their body. Teens want to fit in with the group and will sometimes do things to fit in. She was not 
thinking of the consequence of her action and as a result led to her being pregnant. In David 
Hoffmann article “Logos as Composition” he discusses the importance of the rhetorical device 
logos. That logos has a tremendous range in its meaning and many definition.  It is up to the 
reader to figure it out. Hoffmann argues that logos is a meaning of gathering or composition. 
That all the different senses of the word only represent extensions of this unitary meaning into 
different contexts. He later discusses that writer always has a reason for what they wrote 
(Hoffmann 27-29). In Angelou's case, the reason for Johnny pregnancy was due to her not liking 
the way her body was turning out and thinking intercourse is the best way to fix it. As one can 
 see there is always a reason for the action that one commits. Another example of logos is the 
reason why her mother left her with her grandmother in Arkansas. While it was never stated in 
the writing one can imply why she left her. According to the writing her mother loved her very 
much. In Letter to My Daughter her mother is “working some part of [her] anatomy off to buy 
you good clothes and give you well-prepared food and keep this roof over your head ... She 
kissed me on the lips and started to cry. That’s the first time I have seen you smile.” (Angelou 
para 22). Johnny mother loves her very much due to the fact that she cried when she saw her 
smile for the first time and she is doing everything she can to give her a good life. Based on this 
information it is logical that her mother had to live her so that she can earn more money to 
support Johnny and her brother. Arkansas did not have the greatest economy but California did, 
it is only logical that she had to leave them in order to make enough money to support Johnny 
and her brother. Just what Hoffmann suggest it is up to the reader in order to find out the reason 
why it happen. Maya Angelou use logos to show the reasoning why the charters of her books did 
the actions that they did. 
Another type of rhetorical device that Maya Angelou uses in the excerpt Letter to my 
Daughter is arrangement. Angelou arranges her writing using subtitles to indicate the topic of 
that section of the text. For example, the first subtitle in Letter to My Daughter is called “home.” 
In this subtitle Angelou explain where Johnny came from and how her life was living in 
Arkansas. In it she explains the hardship that she has face while growing up. (Angelou paras 1
11). Same thing with all of her other subtitles like philanthropy, revelation, and giving birth. 
Each of these subtitles explains what is going to be the topic of that certain section in her book. 
Another writer that uses a similar method like this is Gerald Graff in his article “Hidden 
Intellectual” In his article he separates his topics using subtitles like “Street Smarts and Public 
Argument” in which he explains how street smart are just as smart as book smart students. He 
does this for every subtitle and explains what the topic is going to be about (Graff 22-23). As one 
can tell the both use this in a similar way. These subtitles help the reader understand what the 
topic is going to be about. Instead of the reader trying to figure out what is the topic of each part 
of the writing. The writer has arranged it so that it is easy to know what the topic is. Angelou 
uses the rhetorical tool arrangement in order to show the readers what the topic is going to be 
about in that certain section of her writing. 
Another type of rhetorical device that Maya Angelou uses in the excerpt Letter to my 
Daughter is style. Angelou uses many types of style throughout her writing. One of them is when 
she gives the reader a hint when an major event is about to happen. Almost as she wants to give 
her reader a hint on a major event that is going to happen. For example, when she got pregnant 
and told us the gender of her baby. Before it was even state Angelou told us that “nine months 
later, I had a beautiful baby boy. The birth of my son caused me to develop enough courage to 
invent my life.” She could have just said that her action caused her to be pregnant, but instead 
she jumps into the future when she was gave birth to a boy. All of it happen before she was even 
talking about her pregnancy and how it affected her life. In Paul R. Heinmiller and Alice S. Allen 
article “ Developing a Technical Writing Style” they discuss that “style is important to writers 
and editors. By successfully utilizing style fundamentals you will be able to communicate more 
effectively, and therefore do a better job in getting the point across to the reader” (Heinmiller and 
Allen 5) Just like what Heinmiller and Allen said to writer style is very important and can 
provide clarity to the situation. In Angelou's cases she provides her reader with a sneak peak on 
what is going to happen. The use of the rhetorical devices style in Maya Angelou Letter to My 
Daughter helps reader know what is going to happen later in her writing. 
The use of rhetorical devise shows the success that Maya Angelou had in the excerpt 
Letter to my daughter. The use of ethos, pathos, logos, arrangement, and style in a way that stood 
out to the reader so they can understand the book. These six techniques are not the only ones that 
Angelou use in the excerpt but these six are the ones that stand out the most and can easily be 
identified. Angelou was able to get the most of her writing because she was able to use the 
rhetorical device effectively. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Work Cited: 
Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter. Random House, 2008. 
Goldschmidt, Walter. “Some Notes on the Origin of ‘Ethos.’” Some Notes on the Origin of 
"Ethos", vol. 32, no. 3, 18 Sept. 2017, pp. 289–292. JSTOR , 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/3651840. 
Graff, Gerald. “Hidden Intellectualism.” Vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 21–36 
Henmiller, Paul R., and Alice S. Allen. “Developing a Technical Writing Style.” Vol. 9, no. 3, 26 
Sept. 2016, pp. 5–7. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/43093686. 
Hoffmann, David. “Logos as Composition.” Logos as Composition, vol. 33, no. 3, 18 Sept. 2017, 
pp. 27–53. JSTOP, http://www.jstor.org/stable/3886194. 
Johnson, Nan. “Reader-Response and the Pathos Principle.” Reader-Response and the Pathos 
Principle, vol. 06, no. 2, 18 Sept. 2017, pp. 152–166. JSTOP, 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/465931.
