Christopher’s Journey 
                     The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time by Mark Haddon is about a teenage boy named Christopher who has Autism. Christopher finds a dog that has been killed, and he decides he needs to investigate who did it, but this prying makes his father irritated. After this he figures it out in ways his dad won’t see. Little did he know that the reason his father is so adamant that he stopped investigating was because he had killed the dog. The cause of Christopher’s running away from home was his father lying to him. The two effect were that he had to become more independent and his relationship with his mom changes. 
                   The cause of Christopher leaving home is his father lying to him. His father said that his mother died of a heart attack when she had actually left him for another man. This confused and scared Christopher, and then he found out that his father had killed Wellington the dog which made him think he would kill him too. This is why Christopher ran away from home. He talks about this in the book with “I had to get out of the house. Father had murdered wellington. That meant he could murder me, because I couldn't trust him, even though he had said “Trust me,” because he had told a lie about a big thing”(Haddon 122). Someone who does not have special needs may just be angry with his dad, but since Christopher does have it he doesn't quite understand this.
 
          Christopher had to become independent when he ran away from home. When he was growing up, his parents to deal with everything for him. When he wanted to take A levels early, his father went and talked to the principal at his school so he could take it. Christopher never had much of an opportunity to handle things by himself, so when he left home he struggled with this. He often asked strangers for help, like with finding the train station, and they acted like he was crazy because he did not know much about his own town. While in one hand Christopher is a very smart young man, due to his disability he struggles. Christopher has to fend for himself which was hard because he had to learn based on what was going on around him. When he decided to go live with his mother, he did not know how to get there. He had only been some places, so he used his knowledge of that to go where his mother was. Thanks to his picture perfect memory his had memorized his mom’s address. But when he got to the train station, the noise and activity was too much and he sat on a bench for hours.This shows that he is growing up because he had to process what was going on and figure out how to get on the train without freaking out. He looks at this when he states that “And when I am in a new place, because I see everything, it is like when a computer is doing too many things at the same time and the central processor unit is blocked up and there isn't any space left to think about other things”(143). He also almost got himself killed when his rat Toby escaped and ran into the tracks, where Christopher ran after him.
             Christopher’s mother changed from his running away to go live with her. We find out that she had never been a good mother as she did not know how to handle Christopher. We find this out in one of the letters she wrote Christopher when she says,“I was not a very good mother, Christopher. Maybe if things had been different, maybe if you’d been different, I might have been better at it. But that’s just the way things turned out”(106). While having a child with Special needs can be hard, one must learn how to handle it. Christopher’s father adapted better at this then his mom is. His mother admits that when Christopher had a meltdown at a store that they had to walk five hours home and that was one of the break down factors of her leaving. She just thought that his father was better with him when she saw them communicating with each other. 
          In conclusion, Christopher’s running away from home was a great step in his independence and relationship with his mother. While his life after may not have changed much, he know knows his mother is alive. He may be more comfortable with his mother as she was the only one he could trust at one time. His journey changed his life even if it was just a little. 

                                                                                             

                                                                                              Works Cited
Haddon, Mark. The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time. Random House, 2003.