English 101 Section 14


                                                             American Greed

     Many Americans have to face struggles every day. Whether it’s from high gas prices to expensive groceries they can never catch a break. The lower-class wrestles enough with some having to depend on the government for support, knowing that they only want to keep the money to stay within themselves, they are stuck in a hard place. Don’t get me wrong the middle class also has its hardships to deal with because these days making six-figures when they have a family to support is not nearly enough. There are always bills, bills, bills, to pay. According to CNBC.com an article published this past Tuesday read, “Voters are also not buying the Republican argument that their plans primarily help the middle class. Sixty-one percent of respondents to the most recent Quinnipiac poll said the plan favors the rich at the expense of the middle class.”, which explains how the people not living a wealthy life could possibly suffer the consequences in the future. Due to the unequal gap between the wealthy and the poor, the youth are not being educated, more people are being imprisoned, and the average household income makes it harder for Americans to achieve their dreams.
     Education is the key to success thus every child should have an equal opportunity to receive a good education but the way society is just won’t allow it to happen. Families living in poor neighborhoods have to enroll their children in schools that are poorly funded which are also located in not so good areas where gangs affiliate and people sell illegal paraphernalia, a place 
                                                                                                                                            
commonly known as “the hang out spot” or “the trap”. According to Park Avenue (2:08), “They watch the children struggle in failing schools and they’ve ended up even worse off.” These types of areas are in every state, in every city where the youth may experience shootings or a drug transaction being made in which they shouldn’t. Quoted from the famous rapper 2Pac’s song Keep Ya Head Up, “They got money for wars but can’t feed the poor. Say there ain’t no hope for the youth and the truth is it ain’t no hope for the future and then they wonder why we crazy…we ain’t meant to survive cause it’s a setup.” From listening to the song, he made a valid point because as someone who has struggled and lived in poverty growing up he can give his view from experience. From to the Huffington Post article, “Fifty-one years later, however, we have established systems that perpetuate and even accentuate poverty. Schools in low socioeconomic areas are underfunded when compared to higher socioeconomic neighborhoods. They tackle chronic issues with a chronic lack of resources. While those who work in these schools may be passionate, hard-working, and motivated educators, they frequently lack experience, support services, and political power.” and “51 percent of our children across the country now live in poverty, and the numbers appear to be growing.” …yes, you’ve read correctly! fifty-one percent and our country has suffered a downfall in education. Now, if the attention was focused on an uptown area there would be a total difference in statistics that would prove how the wealthy want to stay rich and leave the other classes in poverty. Since the gap started off unfairly it has grown even wider. As stated in a NY times article, “Today, the proficiency gap between the poor and the rich is nearly twice as large as that between black and white children.” This focuses on the wealthy having the upper hand in everything because it’s given to them and not earned. In education everyone should have a fair chance at succeeding because without going to school 
                                                                                                                                           
having a dream, reaching for their goals they could end of in negative situations that can lead to imprisonment.
   Prisons have become overrun with inmates that sometimes don’t belong but they end up there anyway. Majority of these men and women incarcerated are African American and Hispanic. Is there a reason why prisons are filled to capacity? Well, due to there not being enough access for people to qualify to have a good paying job with benefits is a setup within itself. Most jobs have the basic requirement of having a high school diploma but how can they get a diploma with no education? The people living in the low-income neighborhoods or “the projects” minds aren’t on going to school because they have no desire to, there’s not any motivation for them to do better. “This is the South Bronx, home to America’s poorest congressional district. There are 700,000 people almost 40% live in the bottom making less than $40 a day” (Park Avenue 1:37). Blacks and Hispanic heritages don’t start off with an equal chance compared to someone that’s born into wealth. The lack of education leads people to things that they probably wouldn’t even think of doing. From the website Prisonpolicy.org, “The American prison system is bursting at the seams with people who have been shut out of the economy and who had neither a quality education nor access to good jobs. We found that, in 2014 dollars, incarcerated people had a median annual income of $19,185 prior to their incarceration, which is 41% less than non-incarcerated people of similar ages.” and “While the gap in income is most dramatic for White men, White men have the highest incomes. By contrast, the income gap is smallest for Hispanic women, but Hispanic women have the lowest incomes.” The information from the article stated previously appears to have a large effect on Americans, no excuse me not Americans as a whole but people in poverty, the society, the minorities they have not been given a fair chance to fight because they are 
                                                                                                                                            
powerful in which the world does not want to see them succeed so the majority starts us at the beginning when they’re halfway done or already at the finish line. Jobs are a necessity to make it in this world. Income is a big part in having the right tools needed to keep thriving in life.
     The average house hold income should be able to support the whole family of 4, right? Wrong. These days making six-figures isn’t enough to raise a family. According to the video Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream- Why Poverty? “It’s about political power the rich here haven’t just used their money to buy fancy cars, private jets, and mansions they’ve also used it to rig the game in our favor. Over the last thirty years they’ve enjoyed unprecedented prosperity from a system that they increasingly control.” The key words that stood out were “in our favor” and “increasingly control”, they stand out because the majority have the power, the ball is in their court they control what will happen as far as how funding will be distributed. They’re most likely thinking about what they’re going to do with that money for themselves because they’re all greedy narcissistic individuals. Also, found on Money.Cnn.com, “The rich are money-making machines. Today, the top mega wealthy -- the top 1% -- earn an average of $1.3 million a year. It's more than three times as much as the 1980s, when the rich "only" made $428,000, on average, according to economists Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman. As if that's not depressing enough, living the American Dream is also getting harder to do.” In 2014 on average the lower-class income was less than $42,000 while middles class income ranged from $42,000 to $125,000. Yes, the numbers look good but they are not helping because the money is going right back to the wealthy’s pockets once taxes are taken out. Following a chart from the video, Upward Mobility of Developed Nations the highest is Denmark with 0.15 while the lowest is the United States with 0.47. Your income depends on 
                                                                                                                                            
where an individual works but if they have little to no education then how do they expect someone to be motivated to follow their dreams knowing they won’t make it because the attention they needed wasn’t provided
   Opposing views claim even though they are wealthy they do give back to the community. Many million and billionaires donate to charities such as preventing diseases or funding organizations to find cures for health problems people face. An article published in October 2015 on Businessinsider.com reflects these people that have given quite a lot of money to places in need. The list ranges from Paul Allen, Warren Buffet, Bill and his wife Melinda Gates, even the founder of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla. “Last year, Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla donated $25 million to the CDC Foundation to fight Ebola, and encouraged all of their Facebook followers to do the same.” Another article posted on CNBC website stated, “Fourteen billionaires announced they have signed the Giving Pledge, formally joining the 154 other billionaires who have promised to give away at least half of their vast wealth to philanthropic causes.” These billionaires were generous enough to give to a good cause in order for people to live a better life. They’re donating half or even more half of their wealth to causes that include poverty alleviation, global health education, women and girl’s empowerment and many more. Some people do have good hearts that genuinely want to see others succeed which is nice and greatly appreciated.
     On the other hand, even though donating to these organizations is a positive thing that still does not make up for low funded schools in poor areas, high imprisonment rates, and how much income the lower and middle class make. The documentary Park Avenue used the classic game Monopoly as an example which contradicts many claims they have said, “true to the American 
                                                                                                                                            
Dream everyone has an equal opportunity starting the same amount of money and the same chance to succeed.” There is no evidence to show that everyone starts with the same equal chance but there are numbers showing how the wealthy riches has increased. These people are still struggling to make ends meet every day. Who knows if the money is really going to the funds that they it is because no one really checks after they’ve donated they just assume. If someone were to ask specifically where your hard-earned money went once donated there would be no straight answer because no one knows! People put their trust in another human being that they’ll do the right but no… that’s not always the case. Back when Hurricane Harvey hit Texas in August, many people volunteered and rushed to donate to the victims of the hurricane so they would be able to have blankets and meals. According to NBC News one executive from Red Cross was not able to give the specific amount that was raised for the victims so they could have the proper shelter and food. This made questions arise within people because individuals in this world do unspeakable things don’t wouldn’t put it past anyone to take from others in need. In the end, giving back being a good Samaritan may feel good but it there’s a chance that it could be going to someone who’s already wealthy and is just being greedy because everyone cannot be trusted.
     Therefore, people living in poverty simply don’t have the resources to achieve their dreams in life because the wealthy has it all. They want them to struggle to pay their bills on time and not be able to send their kids to a good school that can teach them new materials. They thrive on not seeing individuals win because they have the power which makes people feel like giving up. They want to see more money in their pockets and less in others. The large gap of inequality puts the poor at a huge disadvantage compared to someone who has it all. They’ll feel that they won’t 
                                                                                                                                            
make it to driving the new Mercedes-Benz or living in a 10-bedroom, 3 car garage mansion because they don’t have the right education, or they have a prison record, or simply because they just can’t afford it.
