Faustus to the Flames 
	In Marlowe’s “Doctor Faustus”, Faustus signs a contract in which he promises to “give both body and soul to Lucifer” (Scene 5, 104-5). This contract quite literally changes his life and, consequently, his afterlife. While there may be some room for contention or debate about the exact reality of Faustus’s life after death, there is only one sufficient conclusion. Dr. Faustus deserves to be damned to Hell regardless of his unbelief in the reality of Hell, his frivolous signing of the contract, and his supposed repentance at the end of his life. 
One argument against Faustus’s damnation states that if Faustus did not believe that his signature would have any negative consequences, then it was a contract forged with insufficient knowledge of what the contract entailed. Therefore, because Faustus may not believe in Hell, the contract should be considered invalid. However, a person is legally bound to a signed contract—whether it is understood. Even further, unbelief does not create reality, and Dr. Faustus is certainly no exception to this rule. Faustus’s possible lack of faith in Hell does not excuse him from the reality of Truth. Belief does not promulgate truth; this is the same for the lack of belief as well. For example, consider for a moment if Faustus did not believe in the law of gravity. If one day he happened to step off the side of a bridge with the intent to fly, he would still fall. Put simply, even if Faustus does not understand the gravity of Hell, he is still bound to the unchangeable facts and the consequences of his actions. Dissenters of this opinion attempt to plead Faustus’s unbelief as cause for innocence, but Faustus’s culpability remains. 
Dr. Faustus is required to sign a contract in the transaction of his soul to the Devil. Although it may be argued that his signature is given with incomplete knowledge or ignorance, Faustus is still responsible for his part of the agreement. If Faustus did not fully understand what he was signing, it was a fault of his own and only further adds to his guilt. The contract itself is clear in both its stipulations and future consequences. It explicitly demands that Faustus give “both [his] body and soul to Lucifer, Prince of the East,” and promise the Devil “full power to fetch or carry the said John Faustus, body and soul, flesh, blood, or goods, into their habitation wheresoever” (104-109). Even in the situation that Faustus is not completely aware of the details in the legal document, the appeal to ignorance wouldn’t be a sufficient defense against his vow literally written with his “own blood” (Scene 5, 35). Contracts are as binding as the name implies. Although it may be argued that the Devil broke the agreements of the contract, that argument does nothing to excuse Faustus. The Devil’s actions are of little importance in the issue of Faustus’s damnation; instead, Faustus himself and what he has done is cause for judgement.  Faustus willing signs away his soul to the Devil—he signs, agrees, and relinquishes his soul willingly.  
Repentance is a core doctrine of the Christian faith. In fact, it is a revolutionary thought that even if a man waited until his deathbed to repent he would be forgiven by the grace of God. One of the strongest arguments against Faustus’s deservingness of Hell concerns this very concept. Faustus, it is asserted, showed outward sign of repentance during his last days and hours. However, Faustus’s supposed attempts at “repentance” are not valid for several reasons. Regarding repentance, a few questions much first be answered. Firstly, what is the person repented of, or from what; and secondly, what is the person repenting for, or to whom. Faustus does not provide legitimate desires in both respects. He falls short in the first sense because he is not repenting of his sins but instead of his bad judgement. He acts almost like a sports fan that switches teams based on whoever is winning. Faustus chooses the Devil when it benefits himself and then tries to “switch sides” when he’s no longer coming out on the “winning side.” Instead of turning away from his depraved actions, Faustus puts on a show of superficial repentance. In the second sense—that of whom you are turning toward in the act of repentance—Faustus also fails. The only times that he expresses any desire for repentance is prompted by a fear of punishment (and a love of his own well-being) and not by a love of God. True and saving repentance always has its primary focus on God’s grace and love, not on our punishment or the terrors of Hell. Faustus was focused less on God, the gift-giver of repentance, and instead on a desire to escape the consequences of his own actions and preserve his own comfort. The only defense that Faustus is left with at this point is a frail objection that has little to do with his own actions―that the devil breached the contract. However, according to the contract that Doctor Faustus himself agreed upon, not to mention his own depravity, he deserves to be condemned to hell.
	Despite his disbelief of Hell, ignorant oaths, and attempted “repentance,” Dr. Faustus merits damnation. Once his final moment has arrived, Faustus is helpless. He is justly dragged to Hell by the terrifying hands of the Devil’s demons.
