Memoir
    People tend to have an ambiguous definition for the word “identity” and they are usually on opposite ends of the spectrum, causing misrepresentations and misunderstandings between any two people, while I think I have come to understand what people mean when they say “identity”, why they’re wrong, and what it actually is.  First of all, what do I mean when I say that people’s definitions are on opposite ends of the spectrum?  Well, to me that means that people are either too narrow-minded or too excessive.  In other words, too little or too much.  
    On one hand, there are these people who think that identity is simply physical attributes, such as race and gender; the narrow-minded people.  These people believe that the color of one’s skin or which rock he or she was born on defines said person entirely.  That isn’t to say that these characteristics of a person do not differentiate him or her from others.  However, it is unbelievable that one is represented and identified entirely by such trivial aspects of the human experience.  And to me, there is a reason for the classification of humans based on looks: selfishness.  Humans are made to beat out the competition and strive to be better than everybody and everything else.  We, or rather they, as I don’t group myself with such people, use whatever they can to belittle and dehumanize any threat or competition.  They take something as insignificant as the pigmentation of one’s skin to gain any sense of superiority they can get.  Now it may be unfair to say that skin color is insignificant, as there lies so much history to say otherwise, but any history that has been made through any conflict or struggle originated only because of the greediness for superiority and never would have happened if people realized that skin color is nothing more than a biological difference.  Skin color does not create the person nor is the extent of who a person is.  Take Rachel Dolezal, branch president for the NAACP, for example.  She was a white woman, born of white parents, in the United States but she now claims herself to be black.  She felt herself more closely relating to black culture, but what exactly does that mean?  Black culture is not something that was created by a skin color, but the people inside the skin; it just so happens that all those people have darker skin.  However, that is all circumstantial because, as I said before, black people wouldn’t have been segregated to begin with if it wasn’t for the aforementioned selfishness.  Rachel follows what is now labeled as “black culture” because she as a person, not a skin color, feels that way.  There is also the argument that the color of one’s skin is not entirely determined by biology but is also affected by the lineage and history of the person’s family.  This is very problematic to me, as well, in regards to the ridiculous amount of importance is put on the location of where people are born.   
    Whether it be Europe, North America, Asia, or any other continent, everyone on this planet was born on the same rock, with the only differences being where on the rock we are born.  People believe that zip code, coordinates, or whatever other way there is to tell location defines us and our backgrounds.  The only reason that is true is due to separation in ancient times that led to a diverse amount of different traditions.  Along with that, the location itself didn’t create the culture, it was the people.  Imagine this: way back in the past when humans were moving around the world and what we know today as Asians never went east but rather west, and the Europeans vice versa.  The culture that we associate with each continent would be entirely different as we live now, but in that hypothetical world it would seem to us to be normal.  We’d associate Asian culture with the Europeans and European cultures with the Asians.  That is why I don’t believe locations are significant to answer who we are.  Again, there is always an argument that a person’s values and traditions come from the culture that originates from a certain part of the globe.  This can be an entirely different discussion, but in short was really defines values and traditions?  There is another misconception that values can only come from one place, but that, too, comes from within people.  I have values that can be labeled as “Latino” values, but from my experience it can also be labeled as “African”, “Middle Eastern”, and “European” values.  There are many similarities between values and traditions from very different parts of the world, which shouldn’t be possible if location truly did determine such things.  It’s the same as two people who are born in the same neighborhood, same cultural background, and same socioeconomic status.  The location is the same and circumstances may be similar but what a person values is based entirely on him or herself.  For example, I was born in Anytown, raised in Anyville, came from Latino parents, and was in the lower class at the time.  My best friend at the time was exactly like me; born in the same hospital, same background, same neighborhood, same school.  Although we had similar fundamental values, there were may difference between how we incorporate them into our lives.  
    Another narrow-minded approach to the identity question is gender being a sole factor of identity.  Especially nowadays, it is becoming more obvious that gender doesn’t limit or constrain anybody from acting as they feel and not as they are taught or told to act by society.  If gender really did determine who we are or who we should be, there wouldn’t be so many people who identify with a gender that was not their original gender at birth.  Gender identification apart from one’s birth gender clearly opposes the idea that gender defines us.  Obviously, there are many people who still define themselves as being the same gender as they were born with, but there can be some similarities made between the two groups.  The simple fact is that how someone sees themselves is all personal preference and nothing more.  On the outside, gender is nothing more than genetics but on the inside it is preference.  Some may say that this preference does answer the identity question but identifying someone based off of his or her preference is like identifying someone off of his or her likes and dislikes.  Imagine classifying someone as a pizza-lover, or a cat-lover.  Our likes and preferences don’t come anywhere close to identifying people; all it does is categorize people into groups of common interest.  This can very easily lead to people contending that our in-groups define us, but that is plainly wrong.  An individual’s identity cannot lie among a group.  It may be one of the many label that classifies what group we belong to, like a student or teammate, but that is such a small part of our self definitions and are mostly all circumstantial or, as I just mentioned, a preference that holds no meaning.  When I say circumstantial I am referring to aspects of our lives that we don’t have much control over, like being a teenager or being born into the upper class.  These are things that natural and subject to, potentially, change over time.  There are also groups that are neither a preference or hobby group nor a circumstantial group, such as being a teacher or farmer, but these are just things that people do.  I can make the same analogy as I made with classifying someone for what they like, and it would be just as ridiculous.