Dear Dr. Smith,
	My family and friends say college comes with fun new freedom, I say college comes with overwhelming changes. No one tells you about going to a school where the only person you know is yourself, and doing laundry for the first time without your mom. A lot has changed over the past three weeks for me socially, academically, and personally.  I come from a small town where everyone knows everyone, a high school where you are spoon feed information, and a close group of friends I was sad to say goodbye to. Here I am, the new start I have been waiting for. Now I have no one telling me to go to class, to come prepared and ready to learn. Everyone wants to succeed in college, but it is especially important to me. To keep my spot in both the honors and nursing program I need to maintain a high GPA. I also hope to go to graduate school which definitely requires a strong undergraduate career. To achieve the many goals, I have for myself this year I will have to come to class ready to learn, take ownership of my schoolwork, and remember not to give up when life gets hard. 
	It is easy to sit in the last row of a lecture hall with my computer screen open and watch the clock as time passes. That is not the student I want to be. To gain knowledge in class I need to participate, and be an engaged learner (Council of Writing). It is not enough to just show up to class, and not apply myself to the material. The work professors assign their students is not just busy work for a grade, but requires me to apply myself to the assignment given (Leamnson 9). Instead of completing an assignment just to get it done it should be completed knowing that it has a purpose. This is the long run will not only help me get the grade I hope for, but will help me in my profession and in the real world.
	In high school, I could cram information the day of the test and still get an A. This will not be the case in college. At college, you are expected to comprehend the material and be able to apply in to real life situations (Leamnson 5). Since I am used to just memorizing information, I have to realize the change in learning and figure out what I am going to do to adapt. It is my responsibility to come up with a plan and follow it (Council of Writing). It is my responsibility to keep up with assignments in school, and not fall behind. College is an adjustment, but one I can be successful at. I can succeed if I am the one who takes ownership in my time spent here at college. 
	I graduated high school with a high GPA, but it definitely did not come easy. I often failed at different assignments, and I had to realize what I did wrong, fix it, and try harder on the next assignment. Persistence is something that I have experienced not only in a classroom but on the soccer field (Council of Writing). I played soccer for as long as I can remember. I played both on my high school team and on a club team, where I traveled across the east coast to play in tournaments. I expected to have my best year as a senior in high school until I had injured my back. I experienced a bulging disk in my vertebrae that required rest to heal. Obviously, the spot I had been starting in since preseason had to be filled by one of my teammates. I expected to be out for one or two weeks, and then come back like nothing ever happened. That unfortunately was not the case. Coming back was not as easy as expected, I was still experiencing pain and was fighting for a spot back in the starting lineup. It would have been easy to give up, but that was not an option for me. I continued to work hard and practice, and eventually by the end of the season was back on the field doing what I love. I expect to face some challenges along the way here at college. I think what is most important is not the setbacks I face, but what I do to overcome them. 
	As a nursing, major writing has never been one of my strengths. I hope that throughout this class I will learn new skills that will help improve my writing. Writing is not only important because I will definitely be writing papers over the next four years, but for the science aspect as well. Lab reports, patient’s charts, and medical documents all require different writing styles (Course Syllabus). It is essential to understand how to recognize the audience you are writing to, and then to be able to change your writing style for the particular audience.  Throughout this class I will learn how to adapt my writing to be able to achieve in all those genres. 
	Over the past two weeks I have already learned many new ideas and ways of thinking. College has already pushed me outside my comfort zone and caused me to think critically and analyze new information. I cannot wait to see what the next four years has to offer me not only a student but as a person trying to find myself, and who I want to be. I am extremely excited to take Humanities and pick up new skills that I will use for the rest of my life.

Sincerely, 
Sam Doe 













Works Cited
“Foundations of Writing Syllabus.” http://removed-this-url.com/. Accessed 9 September 2013.

Leamnson, Robert.  “Learning Your First Job.” Center for Teaching and Learning at the University of Georgia, www.ctl.uga.edu/pages/learning-your-first-job. Accessed 9 September 2013.

Council of Writing Program Administrators, National Council of Teachers of English, and the National Writing Project. “Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing.” Council of Writing Program Administrators, 11 Jan. 2011, wpacouncil.org/framework. Accessed 9 September 2013.
