Majors and Medical School 
	Many aspiring medical students have to go through the process of trying to pick the right major to help their chances of being a competitive candidate for the low admission rates of medical schools. Students are advised to choose any major they like and as long as the pre-requisites are completed it won’t affect their chances of being admitted. However, some say that this information is misleading and students should aim to major in the sciences to prepare them for the rigor of medical school. Although there are some cases of students who are accepted to medical school outside of science majors, most medical students choose a science field as their undergraduate major. Prerequisite classes are the same for any aspiring medical student and will ultimately be the classes that the admissions board will look at, regardless of the student's major. 
	From a student’s perspective, choosing a major when entering college is difficult and stressful. In the article “Parental Influence on Exploratory Students' College Choice, Major, and Career Decision Making.”Jamie Workman discusses the students’ influences towards their choice of major as well as the biggest influence which are the parents. In many cases, the students who were being evaluated said that their parents had an influencing role in their decision of what to major in. Each student had a unique exploratory path to their current educational decisions, and a different opinion when discussing their parent’s role in their educational and career decisions (Workman, p. 28). There have been many cases where a student may decide to enter medical school later in life, and after they have already experimented in the workforce in different fields. Decisions throughout their undergraduate career may be influenced by outside factors such as family or community. 
These influences can come from a number of factors which include socioeconomic status, financial situation and interests of the student themselves. The article “Distinguishing the Factors Influencing College Students' Choice of Major” describes the impact a person’s major can have on their life. It is described as one of the biggest identified regrets Americans have in their lifetime (Beggs, p.1). The article further describes the psychological influences of choosing a major and found that the students were more likely to find information that was not mutually exclusive such as information that could easily be found using a web search like the majors social benefits. However, interests and job characteristics were rated higher amongst the students (Beggs, p. 45). Many of which however, take their job characteristics to the highest priority, making them choose a major that may be outside of their interests. Motivation also makes a difference with how a student perceives themselves in a particular field.The students awareness of their own motivation also has a major influence on the academic success of them. In the article “A Comparative Study of Motivation for Major Choices between Nursing and Midwifery Students at Bushehr University of Medical Sciences” the authors discuss the motivational factors in choosing the career path for you. The study showed that spiritual motivation was the biggest factor related to the students success and it was seen higher in the male students than the female students (Norouzi, 166). This data shows the importance of motivation which is tied to the mental health of the students. 
Data from the Association of American Medical Colleges shows that well over half of the applicants for medical school majored in some field of science (AAMA, 2016-2017). However, more applicants does not necessarily mean more acceptances. There were quite a number of students of all different majors. Many would agree that having to look at thousands of applications when the majority look the same is tedious. When one humanities major emerges from a thousand science majors, the name will most likely stick. Despite claims of science majors being more prepared for the MCAT than other majors, the prerequisites are the same for all of the students, regardless of their major. A lack of motivation also takes a toll on the students. There are often results of anxiety for the students in which case they are so overwhelmed by their options and they aren’t sure how to choose the correct one that will get them the most benefit and higher chance of being accepted into a medical school of their choice. 
The American Medical Student Association has an essay addressing this issue and bringing some relief to stressed out students. Instead of looking at the number of applicants in each major, the percentages of admitted students were reviewed and analyzed. Percentages are more important and accurate when analyzing because it describes the actual chance a person has. In his essay, Paul Jung M.D., talks about the statistics of admitted students into medical school based on their major. These percentages showed that humanities majors were actually admitted at higher percentages than the the science majors, even while entering at smaller numbers. This could be for a variety of reasons that Jung went into further detail with. He describes that because there are so many applicants who are science majors, many of the nonscience majors end up standing out and are easier to distinguish as outstanding applicants. Being able to separate yourself and having a unique application are what are going to get you admitted into medical school (Jung, AAMC). This is a great reminder for anyone who is going through a difficult time choosing a major and trying to get into medical school. Standard applications are also boring and uninteresting to review. Most admissions counselors would advise students to try to stand out in their applications.
Your major is not the only thing that makes a huge impact on your application and chance of being admitted. An important component of an application are the extracurricular activities that will also make you stand out as an applicant. It is critically needed when trying to be competitive and especially when applying for medical school. Most people try to get background in the medical field by volunteering at clinics and participating in research. Although this is a great way to get involved outside of academia, it is, once again, very standard. Students should keep in mind their own interests and try to incorporate that as well into their extracurricular activities. They should never feel intimidated or compelled to have a heavier science background for extracurriculars, even if their major is not in the sciences. Joining clubs for art and sports are just as important as science and research. 
While medical school remains difficult in admissions, there isn’t one factor that determines your admittance. Rather the combination of many factors that are reviewed for every student, yours should stand out and make the review process a little less painful for the counselors involved in the admittance process. Although many argue that a science major will prepare you best for the MCAT, and therefore make it admission easier for the student, the statistics show that it really doesn’t matter. The student should consider studying whatever they enjoy and will find interesting for themselves, same goes for their extracurricular activities they want to include in their applications. Focusing on being yourself and not conforming to a ‘standard’ is the best way to medical school. 
Works Cited
Beggs, Jeri Mullins, et al. "Distinguishing the Factors Influencing College Students' Choice of 
Major." College Student Journal, vol. 42, no. 2, Jun2008 Part A, pp. 381-394.
Jung, Paul M.D.”Major Anxiety”. AMSA. n.d. Web. 22 Nov 2017.
Norouzi, Farzaneh, et al. "A Comparative Study of Motivation for Major Choices between 
Nursing and Midwifery Students at Bushehr University of Medical Sciences." Middle East Journal of Family Medicine, vol. 15, no. 8, Oct. 2017, pp. 166-173.
WORKMAN, JAMIE L. "Parental Influence on Exploratory Students' College Choice, Major, 
and Career Decision Making." College Student Journal, vol. 49, no. 1, Spring 2015, pp. 23-30
“Table A-17: MCAT and GPAs for Applicants and Matriculants to U.S. Medical Schools by 
Primary Undergraduate Major, 2016-2017.” AAMC. 18 Nov 2016. Web. 22 Nov 2017.
