                                Black Men and Public Spaces
                                                      by Brent Staples
      Many of us have seen racial profiling first hand or been in situations that caused us to step out of character. From personal experience, I’ve had encounters with police officers, at my job, and in shopping stores.
     A couple years ago, officers at the metro station stopped my cousins and I. Our group was coming from Crystals Skating Rink in Temple Hills, Maryland. At the same time, we were leaving the rink there was a large group of black kids coming towards the metro. As our groups clashed together it seemed as if we were bombarding the station but we were just trying to get home. The officers gazed at us, made us stop at the gates, then allowed the adults to go through. We were separated but eventually we were reunited and made it home safely.
     Another encounter I experienced was at my job. I used to work at GAP Factory Outlet Store at Tanger Outlets in Oxon Hill, Maryland. Sometimes I’m placed at the register and I’ve had some bad experiences. The one that comes to mind is when I have to ring up foreign customers. The customers have thick accents so I had to repeat myself. The lady got an attitude with me because she was not understanding the prices so she spoke to me as if I didn’t understand so what I did was break it down for her in the most basic way as possible. She finally understood and gave a faint nod and smile.
     The last experience in a way, hit home for me. I love makeup so much it really is my passion. So, when I visit a store that specializes in selling makeup then I get very excited. One day, a friend and I went to Sephora at Pentagon Mall in Virginia. As we walked in, there was a couple employees that gave that “what are they doing in here” look but we ignored it. Later, an employee greeted us and asked if we needed help but we politely declined because we knew what we were looking for. Out of my side vision I noticed an employee following us. We both noticed actually so we discussed what we were going to do. In the end we chose not to spend our money there because what that lady did was unacceptable.
     In conclusion, Black Men and Public Spaces by Brent Staples really opened my eyes as to how society views us. My experience from dealing with police officers, customers at my job, and in shopping stores also confirmed these stories. Our society as a whole needs to do better.
