Subject: StrengthsFinder & CareerLeader 

First looking at both my StrengthsFinder and CareerLeader, I noticed a lot of my skills have to do with communication and people. I am very much a people person. Influencing others and communication go hand and hand when the skills are used in a business setting. They are all great ways to help run a business and taking a company in new directions. Communication and influencing others is a necessary skill to have when working in the business industry. There are lots of people you need to convince whether it is an employer convincing them you are right for the job, or even showing your new ideas to a coworker on taking the company in a new direction.

Enterprise control is probably the most similar when it comes to comparing it to my strengths. Having a strategic mindset is necessary for running a business, and planning out projects. Having a Futuristic way of thinking is needed when influencing others on ideas helping plan goals for the future. Strategizing for the future is very important for a business or even organizing the plans in your life. You need goals to aspire to and looking at life from a future point of view and planning from there is a great way to start visualizing your journey.

They are not all completely similar. Creative production and application of technology are not very much alike but in some sense can be used together in different ways. I have used both of those attributes in designing databases for previous classes for projects. One of my hobbies is photography and I have used different editing programs on the computer to improve quality or move an object to an entire different landscape. For those projects you have to have a creative mind and use technologies such as a computer. When StrengthsFinder & CareerLeader do not match up completely, I find it as a person’s edge that sets them apart and makes them unique in their skills. You would not think creative production and woo are the best match, but I could use my skills of winning people over with the creative projects that I make using my gifts to the best of my ability.

Overall, I was surprised with the results at pinpointing some of the attributes I can use toward building my career. The communication and strategic skills are great for influencing others and enterprise control. Being an activator is great for my creative production. I write music and sometimes you have to just sit down and brainstorm ideas even when you have the toughest writers block to move forward in your work. Being an activator also is great for enterprise control in starting new projects and getting the ball rolling on making action happen. The top result, I was given by my career match was public relations and communications. I was also matched in career fields surrounding the subject of marketing and new project development. Using communication is essential to being successful in these job fields. Also creative production is perfect for wanting to go into the field of marketing, and new product development. I cannot wait to use this new understanding of myself toward building my business career.
