
Police Brutality: Higher Education and Better Training to Reduce Violent Incidents
	The United States faces many social issues of poverty, gender and race discrimination, to police brutality. Police brutality has been going on from the widely viewed video of Rodney King; a black man brutality beat by several policemen in 1991 to many minorities being beat or shot to death today. Many say that this is because of racism from policemen and I am not going to argue against that statement because there have been many incidents where minorities seem to be the largest targets for policemen. I believe that higher education can better suit and prepare a person that is pursuing a career in the criminology field to avoid violent confrontations between police officers and civilians. The reason for this is because police are poorly trained in the U.S. and have a killer mindset that prevents them from protecting and serving communities. There are other countries where law enforcement is trained well for the proper time to draw a weapon and use reasonable force on a suspect. For any person that desires to pursue a career in law enforcement, higher education should be recommended in order to create an equal view on individuals regardless of race.  
   	 To find a solution to prevent police brutality, the problem needs to be revealed. According to the article “No Justice, No Peace: Social Unrest in Ferguson” by Cassandra Chaney and Dannielle Joy Davis, they argue about all the police brutality there is in America and discuss which individuals are highly targeted by police. According to Chaney and Davis, the Attorney General under the Obama Administration, Eric H. Holder, Jr., found an 87-page report from the Department of Justice that indicated that African-Americans were highly targeted for traffic stops and other low-level violations and found that 90 percent of excessive force were against African Americans. He also found those police officers were the ones to escalate tensions from the individuals they encountered. (Chaney and Davis 268). If this is correct, it shows that police officers intentionally choose their targets and provoke them enough to have an excuse to use excessive force. This isn’t the only evidence to show those police officers intentionally choose who to stop and arrest.
    	Alice Goffman, first handily experienced how innocent black Americans were targeted by police and were more primed to go prison instead of fulfilling the American dream of doing something productive society. She mentioned something interesting regarding police brutality in her Ted Talk presentation “How we’re priming some kids for college- and others for prison.” She mentioned something similar about the reports that Attorney General Eric H. Holder found. She stated that police forces enter poor communities of color, not to promote public safety, but to make as many arrests possible (Goffman 2:30). She described her experience stating, “In the first 18 months that I lived in this neighborhood, I wrote down every time I saw any contact between police and people that were my neighbors. So, in the first 18 months, I watched the police stop pedestrians or people in cars, search people, run people's names, chase people through the streets, pull people in for questioning, or make an arrest every single day, with five exceptions. Fifty-two times, I watched the police break down doors, chase people through houses or make an arrest of someone in their home. Fourteen times in this first year and a half, I watched the police punch, choke, kick, stomp on or beat young men after they had caught them.” (5:36). Her testimony backs the findings from the Department of Justice that showed that police officers stopped more minorities, especially African-Americans for low-level violations or no violations at all. 
    	The reason for police brutality may be because of the “warrior” mentality they have. According to the article “Law Enforcement’s “Warrior” Problem” by Seth Stoughton, the author argues that police are trained to have a warrior mindset that is described as a mentality of a soldier that must be ready for any life-threatening situation and to treat every situation as a commitment to survive a tough situation no matter of any alternative or easier outcome (Stoughton 226). This can mean that police are trained to do whatever it takes to survive even if it takes bullets to do so. Police officers in America are trained to believe that the world is against them and that people are willing to kill them (Stoughton 227). Stoughton mentioned that in the New Mexico Police Academy, police trainees are taught that they must be mentally prepared to react violently, and recruits would tell them that they can die any given day (227). The warrior mentality also makes policemen believe that every individual they approach are armed threats and every situation is a deadly force in the making and that every individual they approach must be analyzed carefully and be ready to kill if necessary (Stoughton 228). I believe that this is the reason for the increase in police brutality. If every police officer is trained to treat every situation as a life-threatening situation, then there will always be a high possibility that police officers are likely to use excessive force instead of peacefully solving a problem. Police officers will always target the individuals are stereotypically labeled to be criminals and keep a wider eye on those individuals from the others.
  	  For police brutality to end, there must be a different mindset for police officers. Stoughton offered a solution for better police training. In police academy training, police officers are usually trained to shoot, handcuff and use force when necessary, but are not effectively trained mentally to deal with situations in a peaceful manner. Stoughton suggests that police academies should move away from the warrior mindset and move to a guardian mindset instead. His reasoning to this and I quote, “…the guardian mindset prioritizes service over crimefighting, and it values the dynamics of short-term encounters to create long-term relationships. As a result, it instructs officers that their interactions with community members must be more than legally justified, they must also be empowering, fair, respectful, and considerate. The guardian mindset emphasizes communication over commands, cooperation over compliance, and legitimacy over authority. And in the use-of-force context, the Guardian emphasizes patience and restraint over control, stability over action.” (Stoughton 231). I believe if a police officer has these qualities and that mindset, it can decrease the use of force and increase peace interactions between police officers and civilians. Implementing a guardian mentality instead of a warrior mentality on police officers can potentially reduce police brutality because police officers will not fear for their lives and will not have that mindset that everyone they encounter is a deadly threat. 
Samuel Walker, a criminal justice professor at the University of Nebraska-Omaha stated in the Washington Times article “Police need better training and community relations, presidential task force is told,” that if there was any minor change in police training than it can have a positive outcome, for example, preventing police officers from having a rude language with the public or obvious racial profiling from the police (Swarts 2015). Andrew Peralta, the president of the National Peace Officers Association also stated that budget has been cut for police departments and those police departments have been strictly focusing on training their officers on life or death self-defense situation, just like what Stoughton stated about the mindset taught today in today’s police academies in America.  This shows that police academies are not doing an adequate job training their officers in the right manner to deal with a non-life-threatening situation because not all situations are life-threatening unless it’s provoked to be.
    	Besides a different mentality for police officers, Craig Paterson, a professor from the Department of Law, Criminology and Community Justice at Sheffield Hallam University in the UK wrote an article called “Adding value? A review of the international literature on the role of higher education in police training and education” that pointed out education can play a bigger role in better police training. Paterson argues that education adds value to police value to police learning and development (292). Education is always a key factor to have a better understanding of any subject and in the U.S., to become a police officer, higher education is not necessary. In the U.S., one can become a police officer with a high school diploma and pass the state requirements. Paterson argues that if one desires to pursue a career in criminology, then it is recommended to go through it in higher education. Higher education in criminology adds more community-oriented experience, problem-solving skills that are learned through the self-directed process instead of a police training process that trains to have an authoritarian mindset (Paterson 292). Paterson also adds that education helps students know more about law enforcement, leadership and communication skills that are necessary for a community police officer to solve problems instead of starting incidents (292-293). I agree with Paterson because having higher knowledge on how to deal with problems and know more about criminology can benefit a police officer to find ways to solve problems without the use of force. Here at Fresno State University, it is optional to take peace and conflict studies for criminology students, but I believe it should become mandatory, so students have a better understanding on how to deal with non-threating and life threating situations that a police officer may be involved in. 
    	Social problems like these in the U.S. can always be solved by just finding where the problem starts. If police are trained to be warriors of war, then they will always treat every situation and every civilian as a treat. There must be better training for police officers to move away from that mentality and create a mindset that is more peaceful and professional. Education can play a significant role in having better policing in the U.S. If there are more police officers that have bachelor’s degrees in Criminology, it can change the individual’s mindset and they can learn more about criminology and how to protect and serve the communities in the United States. Higher Education is always the key to create something better out of someone and build knowledge. The more knowledge a police officer has, the better decisions they can make when situating a problem.  
	
	





Works Cited
CHANEY, CASSANDRA and DANNIELLE JOY DAVIS. "Introduction: "No Justice, No Peace": Social Unrest in Ferguson." Western Journal of Black Studies, vol. 39, no. 4, Winter2015, pp. 267-271. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=117132575&site=ehost-live.
Goffman, Alice. Alice Goffman: How were priming some kids for college - and others for prison  TED Talk, TED Talk, www.ted.com/talks/alice_goffman_college_or_prison_two_destinies_one_blatant_injustice/transcript#t-192399.
Paterson, Craig. "Adding Value? A Review of the International Literature on the Role of Higher Education in Police Training and Education." Police Practice & Research, vol. 12, no. 4, Aug. 2011, pp. 286-297. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15614263.2011.563969.
Stoughton, Seth. "Law Enforcement's "Warrior" Problem." Harvard Law Review, vol. 128, no. 6, Apr. 2015, pp. 225-234. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=asn&AN=102118334&site=ehost-live.
Swarts, Phillip. “Police need better training and community relations, presidential task force is told.” The Washington Times, The Washington Times, 13 Jan. 2015, www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jan/13/police-brutality-solutions-are-training-community-/.
