Facebook is Using You
	Lori Andrews argues vigorously against the use of certain websites due to the fact that the websites are selling the data collected to advertisers to target the user based off what they have searched, emailed, posted, and liked on social media, which then can be used against them. Website owners will leave cookies, or other tracking devices to collect said data, which is why some websites won’t work until the user allows the cookies to be dropped. Essentially forcing the user to allow the website to collected information.
Andrews talks about how Facebook and Google sells ad space which makes what the user searched available for advertisers to see. She gives the example “If you’ve mentioned anxiety in an email, done a google search on ‘stress’ or started using an online medical diary that lets you monitor your mood expect ads for medication and services to treat your anxiety.” In that example, the cookies that websites drop seem more helpful than hurtful. But if an email was sent through Gmail containing sensitive information, how safe is the information if all emails are being scanned for advertisers? Andrews is against the use of Facebook, Google, and other websites similar to those due to the fact that the information collected could be used against you for things like looking for a job or applying for credit insurance. 
The saying “be careful what you post online” stems from people losing opportunities due to what they’ve posted, similarly to what was mentioned above. If an employer was doing a background check on a potential employee and came across an inappropriate picture the chances of getting the job may be affected. In the article Andrews states “Employers sometimes decide whether to hire people based on their online profiles, with one study indicating that 70 percent of recruiters and human resource professionals in the United States have rejected candidates based on data found online.” She also mentions the IRS searching Facebook for tax evaders and the U.S immigration services scrutinizing photos and post to confirm family relations. 
Lastly Andrews mentions stereotyping in the web world, where she states that “Your application for a credit card could be declined not on the basis of your own finances or credit history but on the basis of aggregate data- what other people whose likes and dislikes are similar to yours have done.” She argues that what the user may like or dislike on social media can affect how creditors view and classify them. She gives an example that explains if a guitar player or divorcee are more likely to renege on a credit-card bill, then the fact that the user has clicked on a guitar ad or emailed a divorce lawyer the credit company deems the user less credit worthy than someone who hasn’t done either. She informs the reader that even though credit users are allowed to dispute false claims against them, the credit companies are not required to disclose the information they have collected. 
In conclusion since there are no laws that regulate what kind of data can be collected by aggregators, anything online is up for dibs. They may collect and gather as much information and do with it as they please be it marketing or helping catch a tax evader Andrews informs the reader that essentially everything we do online has an effect on us in one way or another.
