CRITICALLY RETHINKING THE PROTECTION FROM ABUSE ACT                                 














                                                Critically Rethinking The Protection 
                                                               From Abuse Act																																																																																																																																					
                                                                    Abstract
The prompting of the Protection From Abuse Act (PFA) and  need for restraining orders came to be in the early 1970’s. Many groups believed that the soaring numbers of divorces were caused by domestic abuse. The need by abuse victims for relief from their abusers became a vessel for social change. Bringing justice to the victims of the abuse. Because it had gone undocumented for so many years, the judicial system did not sense the urgency of the situation. The shame, embarrassment, and financial hardship that would have been felt by the victims, if an arrest was made, and incarceration followed, was enough to make a victim reconsider pressing charges. This was  especially true when it was the man being abused by a  female. PFA’s have gone from being unheard of,  to a common docket in domestics/family divisions of the court system.  The sensitivity  of domestic violence leaves the police officers, and judges in a very gray area.  It is hard to enforce a PFA when the victim changes rules and becomes the abuser. The problem with the way the law is currently written is that a plaintiff need only prove his/her case by the preponderance of the evidence. This is an extremely low burden to satisfy and simply means that when looking at all the evidence, the plaintiffs case is more likely to be true ot there is a more than 50% chance it is true. (PFA Court: A System Ripe for Abuse. The Protection from Abuse Act, title 23, section 6101). 





                               Critically Rethinking The Protection from Abuse Act
When a law is passed, it is to be upheld to the utmost ability of the officers charged with enforcing it. When the need to enforce a PFA arises, the justice scales do not balance. The law does protect the victim, but there is virtually no protection for the actor. As defined by the Pennsylvania Legal Aid Network, abuse is “putting someone in reasonable fear of immediate and serious physical harm”. (PaLawHelp). It further states, “...repeatedly committing other acts that cause the person reasonable fear of bodily injury”. The accused is court ordered to stay away from the victim or face criminal contempt. In reality the PFA is often violated by the plaintiff, not necessarily by the defendant. The law fails the defendant in this area. This is a violation of the equal protection clause. The state of Pennsylvania does not have an actual crime code for violating a PFA. Instead the charge of indirect criminal contempt of court will be used a the punishment for violating a PFA order.
    The childhood story “The Boy Who Cried Wolf” is truly a morally epic tale.  It teaches its readers that one shouldn’t sound the alarm for false ideations. The cause and the effect of this fable is much like what has happened to the PFA Act. It is not hard to imagine a plaintiff using a PFA as a means of punishing the defendant. Once a PFA is issued, the judges have to evaluate the credibility of the victim. Many times the PFA is issued with the defendant in absentia. The judge only hears one side of the complaint. The defendant isn’t given the opportunity to defend his or herself. Nor are they able to show the courts that the plaintiff may have aggravated the situation, or may have added to or conveniently left out information that the fifth amendment would protect against.
“I just want her to go away and leave me alone”. (C. Smith, 2017) These are the words that were spoken to a judge. The victim had claimed harassment, late night phone calls, stalking amongst  numerous other threatening behaviors. The judge noted Mr. Smith's words, but they seem to have fallen on deaf ears. The PFA was issued against the defendant without a second thought given to what he claimed in the courtroom. The law didn’t question Mr. Smith claim that the plaintiff was the actor, and because of the courts failed to acknowledge his words, the requestor of the PFA was in his driveway when he returned home that day. When Mr. Smith tried to walk away from her, she followed him into his home. When she didn’t get the reaction from him that she wanted, she called the police. The officers told Mr. Smith to stay away from her, even though she was standing on his porch. This brings me to my next point. Consistent with the patriarchal paradigm, research suggests the judicial responses to domestic violence temporary restraining orders (TRO) request may be sex-differentiated. It further states that,’although there were no systematic differences in level of violence as a function of plaintiff sex, judges were almost 13 times more likely to grant a TRO requested by a female plaintiff against her male intimate partner, than a TRO requested by a male partner against his female partner’. (Muller, 2009) It is as though for as far as equal rights have brought women into the 21 century, the courts are still viewing women as the victim, and failing to acknowledge that men are just as able to be victims as are females. 
   Equality among males and females as seen by the judicial system is a heated debate. Society dictates that females are the softer gender. That women are not so capable of evilness, hatred or attacks of the opposite sex. However, Josh Krysak of the Herald Standard wrote of a case where one Malisa Conroy of South Union Pa. plead guilty to stabbing her husband during a domestic assault in January 2012 and also lying during a protection from abuse case. She plead guilty to unsworn falsification to authorities and providing false reports to law enforcement in Fayette County. She also admitted to stabbing herself before turning the knife on her husband. This is just one of many cases available to the public. 
                                                                   Literary Review
Do Judicial Responses to Restraining Order Requests Discriminate Against Male Victims of Domestic Violence? 
     All states have the ability to issue PFA/TRO’s. The laws that surround this ability is not used to its full potential. Men seem to be the victims of the courts in domestic violence cases. This journal article brings to light that equal protection is not duly exercised in many DV cases. 
Effectiveness, victim safety, characteristics, and enforcement of protection orders. 
  The study conducted dealt with all the right elements when enforcing a PFA. However, it gives a false sense of security when a PFA is required. In addition, the study seemed to be from the plaintiffs point of view. The article did mention the problems with enforcing an active PFA. Protection from Abuse order is just a piece of paper, it can not stop a bullet. 
PFA Court: A System Ripe for Abuse
The author acknowledges that there is a problem with the system. The fact that the burden of proof is so low to prove abuse by the victim leaves the system itself open for a lawsuit. It also takes into consideration, that the ramifications for violating a PFA doesn’t stop at the PFA being issued. 
Arresting Evidence: Domestic Violence & Repeat Victimization
The study is this article was very one sided. As indicated by the title, the subjects were closely monitored. The suggestion of a three tiered program to reduce and alleviate further abuse is a noble cause. With all of its good points, it did not address the cases that are not reported. Or the number of deaths up to the point where the study was conducted. 
Protecting Victims of Domestic Violence: A Law Enforcement Officer’s Guide to Enforcing Orders of Protection Nationwide
The law is put into place to protect everyone under that law. Again, this has fallen short to mention the protection of the actor himself. This article mentions that orders of protection should be enforced across the lines. In the issuing jurisdiction as well as outside of it. 


                                                                  Conclusion
Immediate enforcement action should include ensuring the safety of all involved, seeking any needed medical attention, safeguarding the victim from further abuse and other actions. (International Assoc of Chiefs of Police, record 1) In an ideal world, the need for PFA’s and restraining orders wouldn’t be necessary. Our world is not ideal. Especially for the law enforcement officers who must respond to domestic violence calls. Unfortunately,  not even the officers themselves are safe when investigation a DV situation. They are tasked with making critical decisions that may leave a victim in a worse place than before the call was ever placed. Or, they could be persuaded to take the wrong parties side, again leaving either the actor or the victim in a vulnerable position. The need for the judicial system to look at the PFA act and the issuing of temporary restraining orders is paramount. The pendulum swings  to one side, when our laws and rights indicate that it should be balanced.  The use of resources upon issuing a PFA/TRO is an integral step in ensuring the safety and well being of the citizens. Further investigations into allegations of abuse before issuance is completed could save lives, save money and stop the courts from having the wool pulled over their eyes. 
    
                                     
















                                                                  References
C. Smith (personal communication, September 17, 2017)    
Hanmer, J., Griffiths, S., Jerwood, D., & Webb, B. (1999). Arresting Evidence: Domestic Violence & Repeat Victimization. Arresting Evidence: Domestic Violence & Repeat Victimization     
                                                
International Assoc of Chiefs of, P. (1999). Protecting Victims of Domestic Violence: A Law Enforcement Officer's Guide to Enforcing Orders of Protection Nationwide. Protecting Victims Of Domestic Violence: A Law Enforcement Officer's Guide To Enforcing Orders Of Protection Nationwide

 Krysak, J. H. (2012, May 27). South Union woman accepts plea deal. Associated Press, May 2012

Muller, H., Desmarais, S., & Hamel, J. (2009). Do judicial responses to restraining order requests discriminate against male victims of domestic violence?. Journal Of Family Violence, 24(8), 625-637.

PFA Court: A System Ripe for Abuse. The protection from Abuse act. Title 23 Section 6101

Russell, B. (2012). Effectiveness, victim safety, characteristics, and enforcement of protective orders. Partner Abuse, 3(4), 531-552. doi:10.1891/1946-6560.3.4.531
