Data Aggregation and the Risk


 	The rejection letter is short and unsatisfying. The explanation given lacks detail, saying only that the employer “did not have a need for someone with this skill set.” But, the job description matches the candidate’s qualifications perfectly. On the contrary, the real reason for the denial is that the employer relied on data aggregators to mine for information about the candidate through social media profiles and search engine history. Information deemed personal and harmless when taken out of context has severe consequences. Data aggregation is the process used by companies to gather information synthesized in a summary form about users of social media and other platforms for purposes such as statistical analysis.  In her essay “Facebook Is Using You,” Lori Andrews criticizes social media sites because she wants to raise awareness about the risks of data aggregation, to propose more laws against data aggregators, and to warn users against assumptions derived from data aggregators.
Many people can fall victim to data aggregation and not even realize it until it is too late. The root of the problem is that people are unaware that behind their phone or laptop screen displaying what they believe to be private, data mining and information gathering occurs. In her essay, Andrews uses examples and statistics to bring awareness to this despicable pattern. By doing this (doing what?), individuals can increase their chances of falling victim to data aggregation. Once aware of the actual situation, it may motivate others to take action of their own, which could include spreading the word about data aggregation in their own way and taking precautions when searching online. Once knowledge spreads, the accumulation of attention and support from people could lead to the implementation of laws that control data aggregation. Another form of action that may be taken could be writing letters to Congress. For example, in her essay, Andrews says “Facebook made $3.2 billion in advertising revenue last year.” Once it is clear that such a large amount of money has been made solely on personal information provided by the company, it may compel them to write a strongly worded letter.
Once the word has spread about data aggregation, the pressing issue regarding how to resolve the intrusion must be addressed. This leads to the second reason that Andrews criticizes social media sites. She proposes that more laws be put in place to regulate data aggregators. Day after day people lose countless job opportunities, insurance coverage, and credit card accounts, all because of data aggregators. If specific laws were enacted to keep these aggregators from having extensive access into online data of an applicant, it could increase a qualified candidate's chance of acquiring what it is they seek. However, since that is not the case, these aggregators have the power to do essentially whatever they want when it comes to personal information online. Andrews states that “because no laws regulate what types of data the aggregators can collect, they make their own rules.” For example, in her writing Andrews explains how in 2007 and 2008, the online advertising company NebuAd contracted with 6 internet service providers to install hardware on their networks that monitored users’ internet activities and transmitted the data to NebuAd servers. NebuAd was one of the first companies to develop behavioral targeting systems which allowed data aggregators to receive insight into a person's interest in information collected via the internet. The government must put laws in place to keep aggregators like NebuAd from copying emails and other information from over 400,000 people. 
Andrews’ last reason for criticizing social media sites is to warn users about assumptions derived from data aggregators. When online, people fail to consider the risk posed by conducting searches that may ultimately portraying them in a certain—potentially negative—light. For example, a search on cannabis and alcohol could be collected by data aggregators, sent to third parties, and used to mischaracterize the searcher as an irresponsible individual essentially costing them potential opportunities in life. Andrews references an example of search for “diabetes for a friend or rape drugs for a mystery I'm writing, data aggregators assume those searches reflect my own health and proclivities.” That information is then shared with companies and even though it could be false, may still lead to a negative personal consequence. An additional problem with data aggregation is web lining. In her essay, Andrews describes web lining as “the practice of denying people opportunities based on their digital selves.” For example, she explains how when applying for a credit card the applicant may be presented with a lower limit, not because of their credit history but as a consequence of their race, zip code, sex and websites they visit. In the end, the presumptions about a person taken from online accounts by data aggregators via web lining can be detrimental to a person’s image and reputation.
To conclude, data aggregation is an invasive act that involves data aggregators collecting information on a person through their online interest and social media accounts. The effects of data aggregation can be detrimental to a person when it comes to applying for specific things such as insurance coverage, credit card accounts or a job.  In her essay "Facebook Is Using You,” Andrews criticizes social media sites because she wants to raise awareness about the risks of data aggregation, to propose more laws against data aggregators, and to warn users against assumptions derived from data aggregators.
