Solution of Disabilities for Higher Education
       	Students and teachers shouldn’t show pity for disabled students because their mental, physical, sensory and learning disability, but see them as challenges. Today, disabled students are not taken seriously when coming to school, however, scholars have proven that student with disabilities had an increased for higher education. Statistic by” Experiences of College Students with Disabilities and the Importance of Self-Determination in Higher Education Settings” Elizabeth Evans Getzel and Colleen A. Thoma stated that “Approximately 25 percent of students with disabilities strive for higher education after high schools in 2005” (77). According to Jennifer Hall Riviera, “The blending Learning Environment: A Viable Alternative for Special Needs Students”, she stated that most disabled students strive for higher education by taking one of the two class, online learning, which they take a course with students without disabilities online. Second, some students with disabilities can blend in with other students, which both students with disabilities and student without disabilities have to face to face courses. We should stop this isolation of disabled students in the beginning of their education, then waiting till college to accept them.
           When going to K-12, students are separate from disabled students and non-disabled students. In the article, “Comparison of paper–pencil and online performances of students with learning disabilities”, Husein Taherbhai, Daeryong Seo, and Trinell Bowman’s research are to discover if students with learning disabilities can learn as well as students without learning disabilities. One of the research in the article is, “the extent to which modes of assessment influence the performance of students who meet specific eligibility criteria to take an alternate form of the regular test” (64). This indicated that students with learning disabilities are to take both tests to see if the test were to be different from one and another.  Although, the article, “A Comparison of Computer-Based Testing and Pencil-and-Paper Testing for Students with a Read-Aloud Accommodation” some contrast concerning computer-based testing and pencil and paper testing can be a problem if students with learning disabilities don’t have a computer at home, however students with learning disabilities and student without learning disabilities prefer computer-based testing over pencil and paper testing. Claudia Flowers quoted, “if states allow a read-aloud accommodation, there is no evidence that one testing mode provides an unfair advantage over the other” (8). This specifies that with or without read-aloud aid, computer-based testing and pencil-and-paper testing will have the same tests results. 
People have claimed that the only way for students with disabilities to gain a higher education is to get a high school diploma. Over the years, students with disabilities attendance have increased in college. Also, students with disabilities and students without disabilities graduations rates are similar based on gender, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.  In the article, “College Student Persistence: A Multilevel Analysis of Distance Learning Course Completion at the Crossroads of Disability Status”, James F. Stewart II, Coretta Mallery and Jaehwa Choi’s research shows that students with disabilities and students without disabilities are equally intelligent when taking the same course. The article stated, “Conversely, contemporary researchers who statistically control for extraneous variables (e.g., GPA, hours earned, gender) assert that there is no significant difference between the grades of SWD and SWOD in traditional” (369).  This point out that students with disabilities and student without disabilities are equally the same when studying on undesirable variable when taking the same course but in traditional learning environment. Furthermore the Stewart II claims that, “substantial discovery that our results for this final analysis revealed that SWD did not exhibit higher completion rates than peers in online courses after controlling for the student-level and the class-level covariates” (379-380). Stewart II argue that during the end of their research, the data reveal that student with disabilities are have a less completion rates than student without disabilities when taking online course with each other. Probably the cause of low completion rates involves with hand on training because usually students with disabilities have a hard time of remembering instruction. Also, they are usually having hard time being socialize with others students. This issue is still being research today because of low completion rates for student with disabilities taking online courses.
Some issues with studies of student with disabilities can be bias or vague. In the article, “Doing online research involving university students with disabilities: Methodological issues” explain that student with disabilities are misjudge base on social media false information. According to the article, study shows that, “experiences of students with disability is vulnerable to careless responding and other response biases” (378). This indicate that when people talk to student with disabilities, disabled student felt their pride are getting hurt around school campus. Some disabilities student felt that when going to class or school, other student calls them, “student with special need” hurt their pride as a higher education student because they felt they are the only person that is special, while other are just normal.
 As this subject continues to be looked down on people must realize that blending in a learning environment is becoming more common in colleges and other schools. In the article, “The Blended Learning Environment: A Viable Alternative for Special”, states that disabilities student enrollment have increased and more have decided to go to college. Jennifer Rivera suggest, “As of 2015, over 6,000,0000 students with special needs are enrolled in public education (79). This is an extremely high statistic considering that in 2015 because according to Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) “disabilities students is about 13 percent of public school enrollment” (nces.ed.gov).  This is a chilling population of students with disabilities because it shows how little faith is put into students with disabilities. She suggests that traditional learning is helping disabilities, however the claim that online learning helps students “work at their own pace”. She believes that disabilities should have the same education as normal students, which she uses an organization, “No Child Left Behind Act” (NCLB). NCLB was created for students with disabilities and provisions applying to disadvantaged students. According to Rivera, people see that disabilities students as different, unlike Rivera, she sees them as normal students. 
  	Instead of waiting till college, children with disabilities can also blend in with child without disabilities. When a topic such as this one has a broad number of variables, it is impossible to simply link these problems to only having a higher education. In the article, “An Investigation of the Motivational Effects of Talking Pedometers Among Children with Visual Impairments and Deaf-Blindness”, author Lauren J. Lieberman, Moira E. Stuart, Karen Hand, and Barbara Robinson states that Students with disabilities also need to be healthy in both physical and psychosocial. The article says, “Unfortunately, children with disabilities generally have even lower levels of health-related fitness because of both physical and psychosocial constraints (Longmuir & Bar-Or, 2000)” (Lieberman). The simple statement that children with disabilities a product of higher education adolescence is absurd. What the writer must understand is that it can be extremely difficult for a child with disabilities to be healthy in both physical and psychosocial by themselves for any reason. Children with disabilities must have to participate in physical activities, often depend on their own perception of their ability and skill to perform activates. Children with disabilities, for example, visual impairment, “can participate in physical activates in different environment such as physical education, community programs, and family recreational activates”. However, even though this may seem impossible, it can be done.
Learning disabilities is one of the most common disabilities that student have today. There other disabilities like communication disabilities. Most students that have communication disabilities are usually are students who speak two or more languages. In the article, “Special Education in a 4-Year Response to Intervention (RtI) Environment: Characteristics of Students with Learning Disability and Grade of Identification” explains that students with disabilities communication disabilities weren’t identify until fourth grade. The article says, “as comprehension becomes the primary marker of reading achievement in 3rd grade and beyond, one might expect the reading difficulties of students with vocabulary and comprehension problems to become increasingly salient” (O'Connor, 105). This indicated that student to begin to have hard time read difficult vocabularies and comprehension at third grade. This is agreeable because when I was in third grade, I was send to this one program to do some reading and writing because I have a hard time reading huge vocabularies and know the meaning of the word.
Not all students with disabilities can take traditional and blend in learning environment, but they can choose to go to school with other student with and without disabilities. Some disabilities students need special care, such as students with emotional and behavior disorder. In the article, “Implementing Check in/Check out for Students with Emotional and Behavioral Disorders in Residential and Juvenile Justice Settings” explain how, “researchers have suggested that the complex and multifaceted nature of residential and JJ settings may, contribute to low levels of intervention fidelity” (Swoszowski,35). This indicant that student that have emotional and behavior disorder need trust, because usually students with emotional and behavior disorder suffer from autism, ADHD, anxiety attack, etc. Without trust these people usually have mental break down, which can cause them to have PTSD. Furthermore, in the article, “Don't Push Your Luck! Educational Family Board (Not Bored) Game for School-Age Children Living with Chronic Conditions, example how parent and guardians can interact with their kids with chronic conditions. Andrea Kennedy RN and PHD quoted, “Board game based learning is an effective and enjoyable intervention for learning about partnership roles in chronic condition self-care with children and families”. This indicant that Kennedy created a board game that helps patients and patient’s family to learn the chronic conditions the patient is having. 
Psychiatric disability is a common disability that happen to college students. In the article, “Familial Relationships and Educational Interruptions in College Students with Psychiatric Disabilities” explain that college students that have psychiatric disabilities have a hard time in college because stress eating, PTSD, depression, etc. The article claims that, “The first core area related to family factors that preceded or contributed to their educational interruption, such as familial conflict or abuse, loss of a parent, or family history of mental illness” (Lund, e23). This indicate that the issue of this psychiatric are hurting their education with traumatic events or medical history. Lund also claim that, “The second core area related to how the interruption affected family relationships. Themes in this area included the rebuilding, reforming and reconfiguring of familial relationships in light of the participant’s psychiatric disability” (e23). The article is specified that, to treat these people with psychiatric disabilities you must rebuild trust, friends and family.

	Some parents don’t want their child to be in general education. In the article, “Safe Schools Initiative Challenges the State Board of Education to Strengthen Rule Prohibiting Restraint and Seclusion in Georgia Schools” explains that student with disabilities have hard tune at school because of being secluded. The article says, “The Georgia Advocacy Office, Inc. (GAO) is a private non-profit corporation. Its mission is to work with and for oppressed and vulnerable individuals in Georgia who are labeled as disabled or mentally ill to secure their protection and advocacy” (U.S. Newswire). This indicant that GAO is trying to solve this issue about students with disabilities or mentally ill by making a law include these students.
Besides being secluded, parents feels that their children are being abusive by other students. In article, “Predictors of Bullying Behavior, Victimization, and Bully-Victim Risk Among High School Students with Disabilities”, explain that bully choose their target based on the student disabilities and their race. Jamilia J. Blake quoted, “victimization risk was associated with perceptions of students with disabilities of feeling unsafe at school and display of internalizing symptoms” (290). This indicate that students with disabilities feel unsafe when going to school, because of bullies bullying them.  
This is a personal experience that I saw when I was a senior in my high school, which I think they need to change this rule. During high school, I remember that my school and other schools made student with disabilities pick up trash around the campus. I really disagree with this idea because instead of making students that have detention do it, they make student with behavior disorder, students with learning disabilities, students with down syndrome picking up trash. I wonder if theirs parent notice what their school district is doing to their child. It wasn’t once a week, it was every day at 11 a.m. School treat these students as free labor that can’t defend themselves. If that was my brother that have learning disabilities, I would have told my parents to sue the school district because this violated human rights. Other students are not the problem of bully, but adults are also doing the bullying, which students can’t really say anything to go against.  
Student with disabilities are the funniest people to chill with. They are like friends that you never expect to have. I remember that one of the learning-disabled student came to me about math. During that time, I was tutoring my friends about equations and problems, and she came to me. At first it was weird, because I didn’t know her, and I didn’t think that they will open easily, because of social media see them as a secluding group. After knowing her, I decide to help other disabilities students because I felt weird if I didn’t help them. When growing up I was bully by other because I have been a student that didn’t communicate to anyone back in elementary, which teacher thought that I have learning disabilities, which I didn’t have. I was just quiet and shy, but when at home I usually speak Hmong because I was raise an Asian-American not white wash. I understand their pain because growing up was painful without speaking little English. Everyone have a disability inside of them which they don’t want to show. Everyone have a physical disability because we human are not created perfectly.
	These learning environments have been used for the past decades, but at the end schools are still diverting students because of their disabilities. The organization “No Child Left Behind Act” (NCLB) are supposed to support these people, instead of discrimination them. Even though these disabled students are not having inequalities educations than some non-disabled students, but scholar believes that disabled student should have a chance to strive for higher education and they shouldn’t be judge based on their disabilities. There is variety type of disabilities that people don’t know that are having trouble today going to schools. Increasing the security and help protection theses students will be a great way to improve blend in environment. While technology is growing students with disabilities and student without disabilities are often taking online class, but the best learning environment is blend in learning environment because it can help both student with disabilities and student without disabilities socialize often. Disabilities education is still an ongoing research that need more time to be experimented because there could still a quantity amount of information that we don’t know about students with disabilities. 
	





















Work Cited
Safe schools initiative challenges the state board of education to strengthen rule prohibiting restraint and seclusion in georgia schools. (2010, Jun 09). U.S.Newswire Retrieved from https://search-proquest-com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/docview/366462028?accountid=10349
The Condition of Education - Participation in Education - Elementary/Secondary - Children and Youth With Disabilities - Indicator May (2017), nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_cgg.asp.
Flowers, Claudia, et al. “A Comparison of Computer-Based Testing and Pencil-and-Paper 
Testing for Students with a Read-Aloud Accommodation.” Journal of Special Education Technology, vol. 26, no. 1, 2011, pp. 1–12.
Blake, Jamilia J., Zhou, Qiong, Kwok, Oi-Man, and Benz, Michael R. "Predictors of Bullying Behavior, Victimization, and Bully-Victim Risk among High School Students with Disabilities." Remedial and Special Education 37.5 (2016): 285-95. Web.
Getzel,Elizabeth Evans, Thoma, Colleen A., “Experiences of College Students With Disabilities and the Importance of Self-Determination in Higher Education Settings”, Career Development for Exceptional Individuals, Volume 31 Number 2 © 2008 Hammill Institute on disabilities http://supporteddecisionmaking.org/sites/default/files/experiences_of_college_students_with_disabilities.pdf
Gregg, Noel, “Increasing Access to Learning for the Adult Basic Education Learner With Learning Disabilities: Evidence-Based Accommodation Research” Journal of Learning Disabilities 45(1) 47–63 © Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2012 Reprints and permission:
sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177/0022219411426855 http://journaloflearningdisabilities .sagepub.com
Kennedy, Semple, Alderson, Bouskill, Karasevich, Riske, and Van Gunst. "Don't Push Your Luck! Educational Family Board (Not Bored) Game for School-Age Children Living with Chronic Conditions." Journal of Pediatric Nursing 35 (2017): 57-64. Web.
Lieberman, LJ, Stuart, Moira E., Hand, Karen and Robinson, Barbara "An Investigation of the Motivational Effects of Talking Pedometers among Children with Visual Impairments and Deaf-Blindness." Journal of Visual Impairment & Blindness, vol. 100, no. 12, Dec. 2006, pp. 726-736. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rzh&AN=106253761&site=ehost-live.
Lund, and Huckabee. "Familial Relationships and Educational Interruptions in College Students With Psychiatric Disabilities." Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 98.10 (2017): E23. Web.
O'Connor, Rollanda E., Kathleen M. Bocian, Kristen D. Beach, Victoria Sanchez, and Lindsay J. Flynn. "Special Education in a 4-Year Response to Intervention (RtI) Environment: Characteristics of Students with Learning Disability and Grade of Identification: LEARNING DISABILITIES RESEARCH." Learning Disabilities Research & Practice 28.3 (2013): 98-112. Web.
Rivera, Jennifer Hall. "The Blended Learning Environment: A Viable Alternative for Special Needs Students." Journal of Education and Training Studies, vol. 5, no. 2, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 79-84. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1125804&site=ehost-live
Stewart II, James F., Mallery, Coretta, Choi Jaehwa, “College Student Persistence: A Multilevel Analysis of Distance Learning Course Completion at the Crossroads of Disability Status.” Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory & Practice, journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.2190/CS.15.3. D.
Swoszowski, Nicole Cain, Patterson, DaShaunda P., and Crosby, Shane. "Implementing Check In/Check out for Students with Emotional and Behavioral Disorders in Residential and Juvenile Justice Settings." Beyond Behavior20.1 (2011): 32-36. Web.
Taherbhai, Husein, et al. "Comparison of Paper–Pencil and Online Performances of Students with Learning Disabilities." British Educational Research Journal, vol. 38, no. 1, Feb. 2012, pp. 61-74. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/01411926.2010.526193.
Vasquez III, Eleazar and Barbara A. Serianni. "Research and Practice in Distance Education for K-12 Students with Disabilities." Rural Special Education Quarterly, vol. 31, no. 4, Winter2012, pp. 33-42. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=85007112&site=ehost-live
