Prompt: Write an essay that analyzes Eugene’s complex relationship with his family.  Support your analysis with key examples from the text and one other outside source.
Purple Hibiscus
In Adichie’s novel “Purple Hibiscus”, Adichie describes Eugene as a very violent but loving man. He not only beats his children, he beats his wife as well. Although, after beating them he feels bad and checks up on them to make sure they are alright. He has very strict rules in order to control his family. He beats them for what he thinks is for their own benefit. Eugene violence causes his family to be afraid, to be silent and have a miscarriage.
Eugene wants his family to be perfect. In order to achieve this goal, he beats his family. When he beats them, they are scared. They try their best to be perfect, but nobody is perfect. In the text, Eugene gets angry at Kambili for being second in class instead of first. Many parents would be happy that their child was second in class. For example, when I get A’s and B’s my parents are happy. Although other people are getting straight A’s my parents are still proud that I tried. Kambili tries to get the best grades but sometimes can’t so she fears what her dad will do to her.
Eugene’s beating towards his family cause them to speak less. The less they speak the higher of a chance they won’t say something their father doesn’t like. When Kambili and Jaja go to the festival with Aunty Ifeoma and their cousins they don’t speak as much. The cousins are very social and have a lot of fun. In the case of Kambili and Jaja they don’t talk a lot and fear saying something papa would not approve of. The fact that Kambili doesn’t talk as much makes the cousins feel that Kambili is a snob.
Eugene’s anger gets the best of him. He is angry that mama doesn’t want to go inside to see the paster because she is sick. He gets mad and when they go home he beats her. This beating causes them to lose the baby. Mama has a miscarriage and papa acts as if he is not the cause. He is sad that she has a miscarriage and thinks it her fault. He has his children pray for her.
In conclusion papa’s violent behavior causes his family to fear him. His desperate act of perfection causes him to beat his family. He thinks that beating them is for their own good. He feels bad after beating and checks up on them.
