Abusing his loved ones

	He cares and loves his but he is very restrictive and abusive to his wife and children. Eugene is the father of Kambili;the main character,and Jaja and the husband of Beatrice Achike, in “Purple Hibiscus” by Chimamanda Adichie. In public Eugene is perceived as being kind generous to his community. How is Eugene portrayed toward his wife and children? Adichie shows Eugene is very abusive to his wife and  strict but also loving to his children.
	Eugene and beatrice have an abusive relationship throughout the book, where Beatrice gets abused by her husband and everyone shows disregard and neglect to the situation. When Kambili narrates Mama getting beat, she does so where she shows it very normal for her to get beat and also where her father isn’t seen as abusive. Adichie says, “There’s blood on the floor. I’ll get the brush from the bathroom “. Kambili and Jaja sit and scrub their mothers blood off the hallway floor and Kambili imagines that it is simply paint from “ a leaking jar of red watercolor” (Adichie,33). Beatrice was brutally beaten by Eugene while carrying his unborn child. Kambili and Jaja are so immune to this, they don’t react in a surprised way, they aren’t sensitive to the violence and aggression and remain silent and afraid.
	Secondly, Eugene sets strict guidelines for his family and has very high standards for them. They are hurt and he sees it as a benefit, whenever the family has failed or has sinned with the things he expects of them. For example, “He draws up meticulous schedule for his children, dictating how long they were able to study, sleep, pray or spend time with the family”(Adichie,24). Eugene wants everyone to see his family as perfect , so if they did not abide by the way Eugene wanted things to go, he got very mad. Adichie shows this when she says, “Then Papa comes to Kambili’s room and she gives him the report card. He is silent and then ask about the girl who came first… Papa start\s to chide Kambili about her grades… Papa says that Chinwe does not have any more than Kambili so she shouldn’t let her come in first”(Adichie,Ch.4). Eugene is a very successful man but expects higher expectations from his family and if it takes embarrassment, like he did to Kambili at school and giving strict schedules to his family; then he will do just that.
	Despite Eugene abusing and terrorizing his family, he tries to sometimes show he loves them in a discrete way. For example, “A love sip he called it, because you shared the little things you love with the people you loved”(Adichie,8). Eugene drank tea almost everyday and when he did he wanted Kambili and Jaja to take a sip to show love but it also showed he didn’t love his wife as much because he didn’t ask her to take a sip. These were one of the little things that Eugene did to show the love for his children but despite this there was always a problem that made him mad with either the wife or his children.
	In conclusion, Eugene can be seen as a man loves his family more because his children and wife do not speak up about how he abuse his relationship with them. Also because the way he presents himself in public as kind hearted and providing to his community. His family is afraid of him and he sees it as them obeying him and he thinks it will benefit them in the long run.
Work-cited page

Adichie, Chimamanda Ngozi. Purple hibiscus. Fourth Estate, imprint HarperCollins, 2017.
