Rhetorical Reflections
        Whether an author writes fiction or nonfiction they always have an argument to present to the reader through their text. To successfully do so, many rhetorical strategies are used throughout the piece so that the audience is subtly affected by their words. Maya Angelou uses a multitude of these methods in her book titled “Letter to My Daughter” in which she reflects on specific and significant events that have occurred in her life. The purpose for these reflections is that they serve as a means to pass off the wisdom that she has gained over the course of her life as advice for her audience to consider. While she reflects on the events from her childhood to adulthood we get to see her use of tone that guides the reader's feelings towards her writing. Which is an example of pathos. The excerpts from her life that she decides to include in the story build her credibility, an example of ethos. We also see her poetic nature shine through in her writing which grasps the interest of the audience. Angelou uses these rhetorical devices in harmony with each other to create an extremely moving piece of writing through which she is able to persuade her audience into thinking about the advice she gives in her book of essays and consequently, change their lives.
When first reading this excerpt the trait that is most notable is Angelou's unique style of writing. There are instances of figurative language scattered throughout the text like, “The earth shuddered as trains thundered up and down in its black belly. Private cars, taxis, buses, surface trains, trucks, delivery vans, cement mixers, delivery carts, bicycles, and skates occupied the air with honks, toots, roars, thuds, screams, and whistles” (Angelou 30) which indicate through the use of  personification and onomatopoeia what her perspective was on living in the city at that point in her life. In particular these comments take on an almost frantic tone which is prevalent during the first half of the “Revelations” chapter where at the end she states, “The day was so important I could hardly breathe”(34). She also uses Imagery in sentences like, “My paternal grandmother ...was the picture of dignity. She spoke softly and walked slowly, with her hands behind her back, fingers laced together”(17). The imagery Angelou uses helps the reader visualize what she was personally experiencing at the time. This allows her audience to have a more personal connection with her, which in turn puts the readers in the mindset to be affected by the other rhetorical devices that Angelou uses. All of these elements in the text help to emphasize her background in poetry and overall present vivid detail to the audience. The figurative nature of Angelou’s words set her apart from other authors. The uniqueness derived from that catches the reader's attention and makes for an interesting text rather that something bland. Rhetorically speaking, the words she uses create a mood that is inviting for her audience to read, making it easier to build a connection between the reader and Angelou. That connection is important because it is what helps persuade them into believing what she has to say. 
        Choosing the right audience to connect with is also an imperative part of rhetoricality however and Angelou published the book that contains this excerpt with a specific audience in her mind. This can be deduced from the title of the book, “Letter to My Daughter.” Despite the book implying that she has a daughter, Maya Angelou herself does not actually have a one. She only has a son. Angelou personally explained the title with a quote from herself that can be found on the back of the book saying, “I gave birth to one child, a son, but I have thousands of daughters. You are Black and White, Jewish and Muslim, Asian, Spanish speaking, Native Americans and Aleut. You are fat and thin and pretty and plain, gay and straight, educated and unlettered, and I am speaking to you all. Here is my offering to you”(Angelou). We see here that Angelou considers her audience to be all of the women, regardless of their identity, who look up to her for wisdom and encouragement. This choice of audience plays an important role in the rhetoricality of the excerpt as a whole and is explained in the “The Rhetorical Situation” by Lloyd Bitzer. Bitzer explains that every piece of rhetorical writing has an intended audience. That it is different in areas like science or poetry where the published texts have no rhetorical audience, only what he calls ‘readers’ and ‘hearers’. He makes sure to distinguish the meaning of audience from rhetorical audience, stating the difference is that, “A rhetorical audience consists only of those persons who are capable of being influenced by discourse and of being mediators of change” (Bitzer 7). In the context of Angelou’s book, the people being influenced are the women who view Angelou as a motherly figure as I have previously stated. The mediators of change part is a little more subtle however. What Angelou wants her rhetorical audience to change is not something in the world they can go out and protest. Angelou wants them to change something in their life, whether that be an attitude change or a lifestyle one. The anecdotes she typically writes that detail the personal experiences she has had throughout her life showcase this. For instance, this excerpt contains the story of how her only child was born without a father through loveless sex saying, “The fumbling engagement lasted fifteen minutes, and I had my clothes on and was at the front door. I don’t remember if we said goodbye”(Angelou 40).
 A situation that her rhetorical audience may be able to relate to, at least in some sense. These relatable scenarios make it very likely that the reader will be inspired to change something in her life to accommodate what Angelou is saying.
 Additionally, using these narrations build trust between Angelou as the author and her rhetorical audience. In terms of rhetoricality, the more trust the audience has towards her the more credible she seems to that audience. This credibility, otherwise known as the ethos appeal is important in a situation like Angelou’s because the more credibility her intended audience gives her, the greater the chances are that they will believe the advice she gives throughout the excerpt. Antoine C. Braet explains how effective credibility is built in his article “Ethos, Pathos and Logos in Aristotle's Rhetoric: A Re-Examination” saying, “True credibility results when the audience attributes three qualities to the speaker because of what is said; these virtues are good sense, virtue and goodwill”(Braet 5). Following this philosophy almost perfectly, Angelou uses her narrations to show us these traits both directly and indirectly. The best example of indirectly establishing her own integrity is when she talks about how she moved from living with her grandmother to her maternal mother at a young age, and that the lifestyle difference put her off from her own mother. She explains that her mother grew tired of the distance between them and started having one on one talks with her. Angelou graces her mother with a rare smile, which fills her mother with joy. Angelou says that from this experience she learned that being charitable did not only apply to material objects, but that you could be charitable in your gestures and emotions(Angelou 21-27). This indirect approach makes the audience come to their own conclusion that what Angelou is saying is valid. She also takes direct approaches for building validity though. This is illustrated for us when she says, “I may never be known as a philanthropist, but I certainly am a lover of mankind, and I will give freely of my resources. I am happy to describe myself as charitable.”(Angelou 28-29) which shows the audience that she has qualities that Braet discusses in his article, making Angelou worth trusting and therefore is credible.
The anecdotes from her life were not only chosen to build credibility however. She makes use of the pathos appeal by including some of the more emotional moments in her life in her tales. This can be seen in the “Giving Birth” part of the excerpt where Angelou recalls the fear she felt about revealing her pregnancy to her mother and father. She explains that when she did spill the truth to her parents they were extremely supportive to her surprise. She reflects on this experience saying, “ I never had to spend one minute regretting giving birth to a child who had a devoted family led by a fearless, doting, and glorious grandmother. So I became proud of myself”(Angelou 28-29). The emotions that are drawn out from her audience, specifically women,  in an anecdote like this is important for Angelou because people in general are heavily persuaded when they understand someone else. Using such an emotion like empathy is one way executing this because, “Rhetorical empathy functions as an inventional topos and a rhetorical strategy, a conscious choice to connect with an Other, and also as an unconscious, often emotional, response to the experience of others”(Leake 2). If Angelou’s audience make a conscious choice to relate their own lives to hers, then consequently the readers will also make the decision to listen to what Angelou has to say about her experiences. Angelou does not just use pathos alone however, she uses it in conjunction with ethos so that her words leave a big impact on the reader. The way it is explained by Reijo Savolainen in his article “The Use of Rhetorical Strategies in Q&A Discussion” is that ethos and pathos build off of each other. Ethos works to ensure the reader's sympathy with the author(4). Relating that to Leake’s article explains to us that  empathy would serve as the ‘heavy hitter’ so to speak. Meaning that once Angelou’s audience has sympathy for her and they can empathize with her, then her audience will have some semblance of an idea of what it was like to experience what Angelou did, and learn from them.
        This is why Maya Angelou has become one of the most influential writers and poets to date. Many of her works, and this one is particular, are tremendously impactful for all of her readers. All the anecdotal experiences she wrote about, the tone she uses, and the very words she wrote were all so meticulously chosen for the sole reason of establishing a connection with her audience. This connection that Maya Angelou has with her audience, and in turn the trust they have in her is unlike any other author and reader relationship. This book of essays is in a literal sense a letter to her would be daughters. Each one of these daughters having been touched by the wisdom and encouragement of Angelou herself. In order to see that meaning however, one must look deeper into the rhetoricality of the text. On the surface the essay appears as just a recounting of the many happenings in her life, seemingly with no purpose at all. However, when one looks underneath the surface we see that the bigger picture is the influence that she is able to have over her readers. Through the use of rhetorical devices in her writing Angelou was able to succeed in her goal of changing the lives of countless women and even men. She accomplished her goal to help those in need because they felt they had a connection with someone they would never meet. That is the biggest indicator of Angelou’s use of rhetoric. Her influence does not stop at just her audience however. Each and every person that Angelou inspires also in turn have their own ability to influence the people they know in their life, creating a domino effect of widespread positivity. Angelou may not consider herself a philanthropist, but that may be the one viewpoint her fans disagree with her on








































Works Cited
Bitzer, Lloyd F. “The Rhetorical Situation.” Nov. 1966, pp. 1–14., www.bhsu.edu/Portals/20
1/Bitzer--Rhetorical%20Situation.pdf.
Braet, Antoine C. “Ethos, Pathos and Logos in Aristotle's Rhetoric: A Re-Examination .” 
Https://Link.springer.com, Dutch and Speech Department, 1 Aug. 1992, Link-sp
ringer-com.hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/content/pdf/10.1007%2FBF00154696.pdf.
Leake, Eric. “Writing Pedagogies of Empathy: As Rhetoric and Disposition.” Composition 
Forum 34, 2016, files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1113428.pdf.
Savolainen, Reijo. "The use of Rhetorical Strategies in Q&A Discussion." Journal of 
Documentation 70.1 (2014): 93-118. ProQuest. Web. 27 Sep. 2017.
1, 2012 Signature January. “Excerpt: ‘Letter to My Daughter’ by Maya Angelou.” Signature 
Reads, 9 July 2015, www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by
-maya-angelou/.