The Key is Slopiness

As an 18-year-old male living in a college dorm room one might assume me to be extremely sloppy, and that assumption would be correct. But, sloppiness according to Suzanne Britt’s “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” no longer means that you’re the messy, unorganized one. Sloppy means that you’re the planner, you strategize and just cannot find the time to contain your many thoughts and ideas. Sloppiness doesn’t show messiness or disorganization, but it shows that I am morally sound, careful, and well-rounded.

Sloppiness has never been seen as a positive trait when discussing morality. When someone called you sloppy they not only challenged your character, but they also challenged your cleanliness and “cleanliness is next to godliness.” However, Britt believes the exact opposite, “neat people are bums and clods at heart. They have cavalier attitudes toward possessions…Everything is just another dust-catcher to them” she states on page 222. Neat people do not find purpose in everything, they believe that everything should remain in their place, disrupted. I disagree, I like to find a use for something even if I know I probably would never find one, morally, everything deserves to be used and have value placed upon it. Neat people see value in stagnation, us sloppy people see value in chaos and motion. 

Care and precision are two characteristics that have often been associated with neatness but, according to the passage, “sloppy people carry in their mind’s a heavenly vision, a precise plan, that is so stupendous, so perfect, it can’t be achieved in this world or the next” (Britt 221). Being sloppy shows care and precision because you pay attention to everything, nothing remains in its place everything gets looked over and stuffed into the pile only to be reviewed again later before finally disposing of the item. There have been a countless number of times where I have reviewed and looked over many of the things in my messy room, double checking and reviewing, keeping things that aren’t meant to be kept. Messiness in a way is just disorganized organization, of course I know exactly where everything is but someone like you probably wouldn’t be able to find my brush on my dresser right away. This is because I have put more thought into the placement of the items in my room than you would think. I unconsciously placed things in a way that is easily accessible to me but challenging to find for someone like you because I am the only one who really needs access.

Being at least slightly sloppy can make you into a more well-rounded person all together. Perfection is something us humans often strive for but will never achieve, as humans we need flaws and drawbacks, they are what makes us humans. Neat people are constantly obsessed with their distorted vision of perfection. They believe that if they remain neat throughout their day-to-day life their life will go according to plan. Constant planning eliminates the possibility of impulsivity, lack of impulsivity eliminates the chance of excitement, making neat people painfully boring. Being dull and boring are not character traits of someone who is well rounded. To be well rounded is to have a healthy or normal amount of every emotion within yourself, overly concerning yourself with the placement of objects can cause major distress in your life. 

Sloppiness not only shows precision, neatness and creativity but it also shows normality. I am sloppy, but it is completely normal, its even quite healthy. My messiness shows just how much attention I actually pay to things. Therefore, Britt was completely accurate when stating facts that sloppy people have better morality, and are more well-rounded.