Materials and Methods
	Within this particular experiment, University's Principles of Biology students, laboratory sections L54, L55, L56, and 03A, measured their vital capacity (VC) in liters (L). In all 96 students participated, 25 being male and 71 being female, and ages ranged from 17 to 25 (youngest to oldest). Each student recorded their individual VC standing three times and then followed by sitting three times. This was done by first taking a disposable mouthpiece and inserting it into the tube connected to the Phipps and Bird 9-Liter Wet Spirometer. Then the student would inhale until inspiratory reserve volume was reached and then exhaled into the spirometer until expiratory reserve volume was reached. The dial at the top would move to the amount of air in L that was exhaled by the individual and that number was recorded and repeated for standing and sitting. The averages were then found within those two categories to find the average standing VC and average sitting VC.
	Before collecting and recording the VC data, three other measurements were recorded. First chest circumference and height were found and recorded for each student. Chest circumference was found using a tape measure and height was found using a meter stick, both being recorded in centimeters (cm). Next resting pulse rate was found and recorded by first making sure the student was rested for at least ten minutes. One individual would then find their radial artery and pace their index and middle fingers on to it to feel their pulse for fifteen seconds. Another individual would use a Mychron stopwatch to precisely keep track of the fifteen seconds, and this process was done three times. The student would then take the three recordings of their pulse and find the average. That average was then multiplied by four to find the students resting pulse rate per minute. Individuals also recorded their age, gender, smoker or non-smoker, and an athlete or non-athlete. Correlation was then determined between VC and height, VC and heart beats per minute, and VC and chest circumference. This was done by comparing VC and one of the three parameters to see if there happened to be a positive, negative, or no correlation.
