Emotional and Imagery Life of Maya Angelou
Maya Angelou is an African-American poet, memoirist, and Civil Right Activist, that wrote a book, Letter to my Daughter, publish in 2009 by Random House.  Angelou’s purpose is to inspire readers the idea of her living experiences from her childhood up to giving birth to her first child. Angelou creates a passionate tone and imagery to convey her readers to be inspired by her life experiences. Angelou begins to build her credibility on her own life experiences and employing emotional appeal; in addition, she provides examples about her lessons. 	
In the beginning of the book, Letter to my Daughter”, Angelou sends some inspiring messages to the daughters, she never had. She uses an earnest mood to describe how her life was. “my world is not meant to be all peaches and cream” (Angelou, xii).  She encourages her daughters, “If you cannot make a change, change the way you have been thinking” (xii). At the end of her message, she describes her targeted audiences, “I gave birth to one child, a son, but I have thousands of daughters. You are Black and White, Jewish and Muslim, Asian, Spanish-speaking, Native American and Aleut”. (xii). 
In the book, she begins with a letter to her daughters that she never had. When describing about her life, she uses “peaches” and “cream” to show a serious tone. The way she uses “peaches” and “cream” to show symbolism, to appeal the audience’s imagery, a life that she wishes she had. She is informing her audiences how to change their way they view life. Such as, if they are struggling to change their life, they should change the way they think. She uses an assertive tone, to show that she is talking to all the women out there and that they are not the only one who are struggling in life. “I want all women of all colors to come together to speak for ourselves, to bear witness to the damage we have done, and to brace one another for the struggles that remain” (Griffin, 152).
Angelou, first sets the stage by describing a specific scenario of her family when she was three years old. The lesson she learned, during this event is being inferior toward Caucasian. In the text, Angelou expressed, “I did not believe that I was inferior to anyone except maybe my brother” (Angelou, 5-6). She uses the word “smarter” to describe her brother as inferior (6). She continues discussing how the south makes African-American feel inferior toward Caucasian children. She implies the term “psychological dwarfs” to describe how slavery make them feel smaller. In the excerpt, Angelou uses a quote from the novel You Can’t Go Home Again, “I believe that one carries the shadows, the dreams, the fears and dragons of home under one’s skin, at the extreme corners of ones eyes and possibly in the gristle of the earlobe” (6).
Angelou uses pathos and imagery to support the lesson she learns, when she was three. She first uses a puzzled tone to describe why she didn’t know why African-American inferior toward the Caucasian. As a child, she never had felt inferior toward anyone beside the people who is older than her. She uses the word “smarter” to describe her brother because he was older than her and help guide her through tough situation when they were young. A term that she implies is “psychological dwarfs” to African-American as an imagery that refers to the slavery. During the slavery age, African-American were non-intellectual and were hard laborer that was forced to do work without payment, which during her time, they were still being treated the same, even though slavery ended a long time ago. In the scholarly article, “Obligations to Negroes who would be kin if they were not Negro”, Werner Sollors, discusses about how “Negro” have ceased to exist, and it implies that Negroes are Negroes because they are treated as Negroes” (Sollors, 142).  Angelou uses the quotes from the book, You Can’t Go Home Again as comparison to how they feel inferior toward Caucasian, while the character from You Can’t Go Home Again is afraid of the dragon.
Adding to ethos appeals, Angelou provides an example of pathos, such as an enthusiastic mood toward this lesson. Angelou uses an analogy “naturally generous reminds me of a preacher passionately preaching to the already committed choir” (11). She describes herself as being a charitable philanthropist, then a gathering philanthropist. For example, “I seem to have more than I need and you seem to have less than you need. I would like to share my excess with you” (12). She gives a comparison toward American philanthropist and others culture philanthropist. Such as “American Cancer Society, the Red Cross, Salvation Army, Goodwill, Sickle Cell Anemia, American Jewish Society, NAACP… Muslim Temple associations, Buddhist shrines, groups, officials, and city and social clubs” (11).
Angelou expresses how she felt toward Caucasians because they don’t know the feeling of being inferior to another race. The author compares “naturally generous” to a preacher because the preacher is willing to give his time for the church. In addition, she describes herself as a person who gives, instead of a person who takes. The difference between American philanthropist and other cultural philanthropist, an American philanthropist would give money to contribute to organization and other cultures philanthropist would give food and money mostly to religion. An example of philanthropist today is Oprah Winfrey. “The bulk of Winfrey’s giving has gone to educational causes, including charter schools, programs that support African-American students, and the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy in South Africa” (Oprah Winfrey). In the content, “My thanks to women not born to me but who allow me to mother them, Oprah Winfrey, Rosa Johnson Butler, Lydia Stuckey, Valerie Simpson, and Constancia Romilly”
Angelou effectively makes appeals to ethos and imagery about her grandmother being her role model. She mentions in the content of the book, “My thanks to some women who mothered me through dark and bright days”.  Angelou notes that, “My paternal grandmother who raised me had a remarkable influence on how I saw the world and how I reckoned my place in it”. She continues with the idea of her grandma as “She was the picture of dignity”. For example, “I imitated her so successfully that neighbors called me her shadow”.  
The writer elucidates how her grandmother, Annie Henderson, was the most influential person who guided her the most. While sticking to her grandmother, she felt that her grandmother was helping her see the world in a different point of view unlike others. Consequently, she uses the word “shadow” as an imagery to show the readers that she was always by her grandmother’s side.
However, when she moved from Arkansas to California to be with her mother, she felt like she didn’t belong there. The phase that the author uses, “I definitely did not belong”, identify her feeling towards California and her mother. While growing up with her grandmother, she listened to “the news, religious music, gang busters, and The Lone Ranger” (13), but with her mother it was “loud blues and jazz music” (13). She uses a frustrated imagery to describe her mother’s action, “Her house is full of laughed a lot and talked loudly” (13). 
Angelou uses imagery to show how she live with her mother. She uses the the phase to give the audience an imagery of how she never had a mother to begin with.  The hospitality between her grandmother and mother was different.  Angelou wants her audience to picture how wealthy her mother was and how much she partied, which made her feel frustrated and irritated by her mother’s action.
Angelou uses a depressing and honest tone to describe her mother being serious during their, “sit down talk” (13). After her mother’s honesty towards Angelou, she realizes that her mother did this because she wants her to have a great life with no regrets. For example, Angelou’s mother states, “but I am your mother and I am working some part of my anatomy off to buy you good clothes and give you well-prepared food” (13). Angelou also uses a delighted tone to describe her happiness after the “smile” (13). In the context, she uses analogy, “Try to be a rainbow to someone’s cloud” (xii). 
Angelou finally realizes that her mother is supportive, even though it was her first time in ten years of talking to her. Even though their “sit down talk” made her feel depressed at the end she gave her a lesson, that everyone is not the same.  Her mother has different type of philanthropy towards Maya, then her grandmother. Her grandmother wanted to help others and Angelou, while her mother wanted to help provide for them. The word “smile” have a delightful imagery, even though her mother force her to give a smile, but she realizes that a smile can make someone else happy. 
As Angelou is hitting puberty, she realizes that her body to beginning changing. She continues explain how her experiences going to “Fillmore Street 5 & Dime store”, “seductive magic”, “nylon slips with cardboard tits”, “lipstick” and “nail polish” (Angelou, 17).  She uses imagery to describe her body “I noticed my body’s betrayal” and “my naked image… become feminine and curvy” (18).  She uses a apologetic tone to describe her feeling about having sex with a man she never liked. “I knew I had made the wrong choice” (18). Even though she regretted during that, but “forty years later… The revelation is that day, so long ago, was the greatest day of my life” (19). She uses “Hallelujah!” as a symbol for happiness. 
Puberty is something that everyone feels at the age of thirteen to twenty, which make our body change. When she realizes her body change, she began to wear bras and lipstick and nail polish to seduce males. During her age of puberty, she felt like her body is mature, but lack on body measurement. In the scholarly article, “Risky, early, controversial. Puberty in medical discourses”, Donatella Cozzi and Virginie Vinel, discuss about how puberty can start by the age of eight to fourteen. Cozzi and Vinel support their claims, “the “toxic environment” surrounding girls and boys is magnified by the plethora of icons and models of an adult's life representation – such as sex, fitness, consumption” (291). In the passage “Toxic environment” is identify as hormones. Even though she regrets having a sex with a man she doesn't love, but after forty years she felt grateful for having the child. She uses the word “Hallelujah” as an expression to give hope to people who have children in a young age.
Angelou kept her pregnancy from both her stepfather and mother. She was worry of telling the truth to her stepfather about her pregnancy, so she wrote, “Dad, I am sorry to bring disgrace to the family, but I have to tell you that I am pregnant” (23).  Using pathos to appeal her emotion, “Nervous and frightened are not words which even barely describe how I was feeling” (24). As parents always asked, “Do you love him” (24)? As a supportive mother, “There is no reason to ruin three lives; our family is going to have a wonderful baby” (24). Angelou learned valuables lessons as a mother, “a child who had a devoted family led by a fearless, doting, and glorious grandmother. So I became proud of myself” (25).
Angelou uses pathos and imagery to interact with her audience emotion in this part of the passage. The tone of this passage was first nervous and frightened and later supportive. Angelou uses nervous imagery to show how worry if they found out she was pregnant. She was frightened by her mother question because she didn’t like the man she slept with and also, she is going to be a single mother. Angelou have lots of support by her mother, stepfather, her brother, and by heart her grandmother.
Maya Angelou uses her personal experiences and emotional to guide reader to not choose the mistakes she made. Angelou main audience are women around the world, who is struggle through life and have a hard time finding who they really are. Also, she doesn’t want women to feel like how she felt when she was a teenager. If you were to become a single parent, try not to regret what you did, but try to live a life with meaning.





Work Cited
Angelou, Maya, Letter to my Daughter, Random House, 2009
Griffin, Rachel Alicia, “I AM an Angry Black Woman: Black Feminist Autoethnography, Voice, and Resistance Women’s Studies in Communication, 35:138–157, 2012, mlproxy.lib.csufweb.a.ebscohost.com.hresno.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? vid=1&sid=53ddc00b-b55c-4f8c-baf9-a5ad3c1dc80e%40sessionmgr4006
Sollors, Werner. 2011. “‘Obligations to Negroes Who Would Be Kin If They Were Not Negro.’” Daedalus 140 (1) (January): 142–153. doi:10.1162/daed_a_00066., September 19, 2017 dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/31902678/DAED_a_00066.pdf? sequence=2
Winfrey, Oprah, “Inside Philanthropy, www.insdephilanthropy.com/glitzy-giving/oprah-winfrey.html.
