
Will the Poor ever grow?
As the population increases and the years continue on, poverty is becoming more of an issue in the United States.  Those of the middle class and the lower class are staying where they have been for years, whereas those who are rich are still moving up.  For example, the fact that "tax pay for millionaires than 25% in the last 2 decades. The reason the rich stay rich and the poor stay poor is because of poverty, and with poverty comes a lack of education, a selfish 1%, and culture of poverty. 
 The lack of education comes from poverty. Tax pay have been cut so there is no money to fund the public schools. For those who are able to make it out of high school have a hard time going to college because the college expenses have risen over 500% since 1980 (Park Avenue). 12 million Americans cannot find work because without a college degree it is hard to get a job (Park Avenue). If a person only receives a high school diploma there is only a 7 in 10 chance someone will find a job (Park Avenue). How can the poor outgrow their struggle if they are not receiving any help? Especially from those who are able to help but are not willing to help those who are in extreme need. Lack of education can ruin a lot in the world.  If the taxes are not enough to fund schooling then less people are able to go to school, therefore if not enough people can go to school how will these people get a job and without income poverty will continue to rise and will always exist no matter how hard a person is trying to make a better living.  Education is the key to success. 
Another reason there will always be poverty is because of the selfish 1%. The selfish 1% is considered to be those of wealth.  That 1% of rich do not care about those in poverty who are the middle and lower-class people (10 Accounting Tricks the 1% Use to Dodge the Taxman).  As this continue to happen the bridge between the rich and the poor will continue to grow.  The rich evades taxes by using different tactics and strategies.  This makes them greedy because they leave the taxes to the middle and lower class which also will make the bridge between the 1% and the lower/ middle class grow wider.  740 Park Avenue in Manhattan is currently home to more billionaires than any other building in the United States (Park Avenue). In one of the apartments in 740 Park Avenue the residents have 25 Christmas trees fully decorated for each room.  Also, another thing with those who are rich that the poor are not able to do is George W. Bush raised 1.2 million dollars in 15 minutes at Steve Schwarzman's fundraisers. Bush tax cut has added over 2.9 trillion to the United States debt ().
The theory of a “culture of poverty” was created by the anthropologist Oscar Lewis in his 1959 book, Five Families: Mexican Case Studies in the Culture of Poverty (Culture of Poverty).  Culture of Poverty is the result of people's values or cultural norms (Culture of poverty).  A child who is born into poverty will have a harder time coming up from it where as a child who is born with more wealth has a better chance of making it in the world.  Children are born and raised in bad neighborhoods, not enough clothes, not enough good living conditions, and not enough food because the poor cannot receive help in order to make a better living for themselves as well as the child.  If the government is funding approximately $346 a month in food stamps for two people that will mean each person is only getting about $5.77 a day to feed off of.  Children who grew up in very poor conditions will internalize feelings of hopelessness or desperation ().  In 1965 a CEO made almost twenty times more than the average worker and in 2011 a CEO made nearly two hundred and thirty-one times more than an average worker (Park Avenue).  Unemployment has reached about 19% (Park Avenue). It is very hard to pull yourself out of extreme poverty says Tim Noah. A simple job is no longer enough to keep Americans of out of poverty.
Those with more wealth do not understand and see why those who are less fortunate than themselves cannot get out of poverty.  The rich believe that those who are poor are staying in poverty because for one they believe these people are lazy when in reality the rich should be surprised at how many people are willing to work and work hard to change their life styles but without enough help, without enough pay and without enough education how does one expect a person to come out of poverty.  The rich believe that government sponsored programs such as welfare, public housing, food stamps, and etc. makes those who are in poverty stay in poverty. The rich thinks that poor is getting too much government funded help. They also believe that the government funded programs are not forcing them to work harder or try for more.
Poverty will continue increasing as long as the poor continues to live in these poor neighborhoods and not get the same education as those who are rich are able to get.  As long as the poor cannot attend public schools, let alone college/university, as long as the poor is surrounded by the same people, as long as the poor is not given equal opportunities to work or get the same if not more pay of those who live rich then poverty will continue to grow and poverty will never come to an end.  Poverty is what it is made of and without the help and guidance to show those who do not know or do not understand how will anyone ever be able to overcome their struggle.

Annotated Bibliography

10 Accounting Tricks the 1% Use to Dodge the Taxman.” The Accounting Degree Review, 1 June 2016, www.accounting-degree.org/accounting-tricks/. 
I used this source because I was able to find reasons as to why the 1% dodge the taxman and was able t get explanation on what exactly the rich do to not pay taxes or as much taxes.
“10 Barriers to Education around the World.” Global Citizen, www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/10-barriers-to-education-around-the-world-2/.
I used this source because I was able to be informed about the education and how it is not being receive enough and what is causing the poverty
"Culture of Poverty." International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. . Encyclopedia.com. 11 Dec. 2017 <http://www.encyclopedia.com>.
I used this source because it spoke of the culture of poverty and it explained what causes it and what the culture of poverty is.
Hickman, Bryan. “Lack of Education Is Root Cause of Poverty.” Rochester Business Journal, 27 Mar. 2015, rbj.net/2015/03/13/lack-of-education-is-root-cause-of-poverty/.
I used this source because it also informed me about the lack of edcation and what exactly it has to do with poverty.
Shepherd, Jessica. “70 Million Children Get No Education, Says Report.” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 20 Sept. 2010, www.theguardian.com/education/2010/sep/20/70m-get-no-education.
I used this source because it also explained about the education that children is not receiving.
WhyPoverty. “Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream - Why Poverty?”YouTube, YouTube, 5 Jan. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=6niWzomA_So&feature=youtu.be.
I used this source because it gave a lot of background and deepr information on why and how poverty is happening.
