Breastfeeding Counterargument 

	I firmly believe that no mother should be breastfeeding in public under any circumstances. First off, breast milk is a bodily fluid and has capabilities to spread infectious diseases to other people who may come in contact with it. I feel that no person should be forced to possibly face that risk against their will. A person should have the right to live a safe life free of infections and if there is a mother breastfeeding beside me, that right has been taken away from me. Also, as a mother of small children, I do not want them being exposed to such things at an early age. My children are too young to learn what breastfeeding is and are especially too young to being seeing random stranger’s breasts while we are trying to walk down the street. I understand that a child must eat but I just feel that the mothers should be finding a different, more private place, to be doing it instead of out in the open for all to observe. 
	As a mother I also know how breastfeeding in public effects the mother in the situation. If it is too cold outside, that can negatively affect the breast in question, and when they are already sore and sensitive as it is, there is no need to introduce cold weather into the mix. Also, when a mother is trying to breastfeed in public they may be stressing about what the population is thinking about her and her actions. Stress on a nursing mother causes several issues including a depletion in the volume of breast milk available. When a mother’s main goal is to provide and nourish her child, she wants to have enough nutrients to provide them. Also, going along with the thought of people being able to watch, the breast that you are using to feed your child is yours, no one else has the right to look at it, and if you are feeding your child in public like that, you have lost that right. I do not think that mothers should be breastfeeding in public. Instead I feel that mothers should either move to a private nursing location or they should pump ahead of time and bottle feed their babies.
