
Plagiarism and International Students: The Strong Relationship That Is Unseen
When a student enters a university, writing becomes a student’s sixth sense. Writing is a valuable tool that students must develop throughout their years in a university. A problem that has grown in the U.S. is plagiarism in student’s academic work. Many studies and scholars have concluded that plagiarism is higher than the past decades because of the broad understanding and temptation to plagiarize. Universities in the U.S. insert punishments for students that get caught with plagiarism in their work. The students that suffer the most from these heavy punished consequences of plagiarism are the international student. Although universities have added a plagiarism policy and the consequences that come with it, they have failed to fully emphasize what plagiarism means. Many international students come to the U.S. not knowing what plagiarism is because in some countries plagiarism is non-existent and have other practices when it comes to borrowing other’s work. Studies have shown that there is a real problem with international students and plagiarism compared to non-international students in the U.S.  Therefore, colleges should provide solutions to help students have a clear understanding of plagiarism. Universities should provide tools like plagiarism workshops and plagiarism classes for students that do not know a lot about plagiarism. This will benefit not just international students but all students to avoid the temptation of plagiarizing other author’s work.
To begin with, plagiarism is difficult to define as just the common definition that defines it as “the practice of taking someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own.” In the article “Stealing or Sharing? A Cross-Cultural Issues of Plagiarism in an Open-Source Era” by Russell Haitch, the author argues of the misunderstanding of plagiarism and the unclear rules that define plagiarism in a student’s academic work. Haitch discusses the origin of the word plagiarism and finds that according to a description from Oregon State University, they define it as “plagiarus means kidnapper or plunder, in Latin, because in antiquity plagiarii were pirates who sometimes stole children. As plagiarism is considered intellectual theft some commentators have likened it to stealing the brain of another” (Haitch 266). This would be a way to give an image to what plagiarism means, but it still does not clear up the full understanding of what “stealing other’s work” means. A student the would read that definition and the only thing that they will get out of that is not to steal another person’s work, but still won’t understand what would be considered plagiarism. Plagiarism is very difficult to define in a couple of sentences, but I will not be getting more into detail about every detail on avoiding plagiarism. 
In the U.S., students are English speakers and one can assume that they understand plagiarism because they are taught in the American education system which doesn’t tolerate plagiarism. That is not the case with students in the U.S. Just speaking English does not mean they understand a full understanding of plagiarism.  In the article “Deconstructing Plagiarism: International Students and Textual Borrowing Practices” by Dawn Amsberry, she discusses the understanding of plagiarism from international students and argues that not all students have the same perspective on plagiarism because of cultural differences. She further argues that even though American students are more comfortable communicating in English than international students they still have problems with textual uses when it comes to applying the knowledge on plagiarism in their work. They may be confused on how to properly apply the texts to their academic work or knowing how to properly paraphrase a source to avoid detection of plagiarism (38). There isn’t a specific number or data to show this, but I agree with Amsberry because there are high schools that do not teach their students how to write and cite their sources and get taught briefly in the college level. For example, I didn’t know that there was a specific way to properly cite a source in a paper until I came to the university and I still have a lot to learn to avoid plagiarism.  This is a problem for students that enter a university with subpar writing skills because it can get them into serious trouble once they must follow stricter policies on plagiarism. 
   	 Under University plagiarism policy, it states the following, “Plagiarism is a specific form of cheating which consists of the misuse of the published and/or unpublished works of others by misrepresenting the material (i.e., their intellectual property) so used as one's own work.” It then goes on to give several examples of what is plagiarism, but the examples are very broad. One example given in the policy statement is the failure to put quotation marks when quoting directly from an author’s work and failing to give credit to the author in the footnote. Even with an example, it is not detailed well enough for a student to see how and what exactly does the student need to put in a quotation or how to give credit to an author to avoid plagiarizing. University’s policy only gives seven “examples” that aren’t really examples at all, just broad statements for what is considered plagiarism with no detailed examples of avoidance. What stands out the most to me about the policy are the punishments for students that are convicted of plagiarism. The consequences that stand out the most are getting an F or a zero, or complete expulsion from the university if that becomes the final decision. There is a lot of ground to cover that defines plagiarism, and University’s plagiarism policy fails to do that. Placing those consequences just implements fear on students that do not understand plagiarism well. 
   	 If students do not understand what plagiarism means, then there should be solutions to solve this issue. In the article “Exploring university students’ perceptions of plagiarism: A focus group study” by Judith Gullifier and Graham A. Tyson, two psychologists from Charles Sturt University in Australia study how clear student understand plagiarism and ask them questions about what plagiarism means to them Their goal was to find out how clear university plagiarism policies are for students. Gullifier and Tyson discuss the grey areas that students are confused about on detailed information of plagiarism and the little mistakes that students make that would be considered plagiarism. Gullifier and Tyson argue that understanding the student’s perspective on plagiarism can help come up with a solution to improve policies for the benefit of the students (464). The way to find out what student’s perception on plagiarism, Gullifier, and Tyson conducted a study in an Australian university with 41 students, twenty-five females and sixteen males that were set up into separate group discussion to study their perceptions of plagiarism. The students were placed in random groups with different students that all had diverse backgrounds to avoid bias. The observers asked the students several questions regarding plagiarism and the students would all have to answer with as much honesty as possible. 
The results were that university’s approach towards plagiarism is not very effective because there was a lot of confusion about plagiarism. A student in the study group stated, “Well, listen, I’m terribly confused what it actually means – I mean, that might sound stupid; there’s a policy that … the wholesale copying is obviously quite obvious, but there’s a hell of a lot of grey area in between that I really still don’t even understand –todays moved that fence further to one side than it ever was before (P1, Group 1, 45)” (470). Some students in the study justified that it was difficult to come up with original ideas for their academic papers (470). Students fear that if they have an idea that they can bring into their paper, there is a possibility that the idea has already been discussed which is considered plagiarism if they mention it without knowing that the idea exists. Harsh plagiarism policies set by the universities have students going back to revise their papers for correct references instead of looking at anything else in their papers just to meet the satisfaction that they won’t be penalized (478). Harsh plagiarism policies set by the universities have students going back to revise their papers for correct references instead of looking at anything else in their papers just to meet the satisfaction that they won’t be penalized (478). Although this survey was conducted in Australia, it shows that universities that don’t tolerate plagiarism have failed to emphasize it to their students. It shows that students are not well educated about plagiarism and punishment for such action, does nothing, but cause fear for students and can ruin students’ confidence in writing because of the punishment that universities have on students with probable cause for plagiarism. These grey areas are what needs to be emphasized and need to be clarified to students to avoid plagiarism punishments. Students need to focus more on the content of their academic work and not on every single detail that might potentially need citing.
  	Another similar study was conducted to understand college student’s perspectives on plagiarism. In the article “Plagiarism: What Don’t They Know?” by Troy A. Voelker, Leonard G. Love and Iryna Pentina studied to find the average university students level of comprehension of academic dishonesty which in the case study referred to plagiarism. This study involved 163 students from the southwestern university that were given a true-false quiz to see what they understood about plagiarism. Their goal was to see what questions students got the most right and wrong to see their strengths and weaknesses in plagiarism knowledge. In the findings, the researchers concluded that there were five questions that most students got right about plagiarism. Those five questions were all about the importance and general awareness of plagiarism. The questions that a lot of students missed were about self-plagiarism, unawareness of obtaining permission from a copyright holder, and a lot of students believed that plagiarism is avoided just by adding a citation or reference (Voelker, Love, Pentina 40). The results show that many students understand the concept of plagiarism, but don’t understand the complexity of what plagiarism is. This is another prime example showing that students do not fully understand plagiarism and institutions should really do something to solve an issue that can potentially hurt students if not fixed. The two separate studies conducted in two different countries show that there is a broad understanding of plagiarism. The policies put in place by universities do not help their native students out much, so it can be even more difficult for international students. 
Many nations do not have punishment for plagiarism and come to countries that do not tolerate plagiarism like the United States. Universities may argue otherwise and state that international students should have a proper knowledge of how to write an outstanding academic paper with proper in-text citations before coming to a country that does not tolerate plagiarism, but if students in the country don’t know how to avoid plagiarism detection, the expectations for international students understanding on plagiarism is even lower. Universities need to understand that not all students come into the university understanding every detail about plagiarism, especially international students that come from diverse cultures that have a different view when it comes to using another author’s work. There are many reasons for why an international student would be more prone to plagiarizing in higher education. In the two articles mentioned before “Deconstructing Plagiarism: International Students and Textual Borrowing Practices” by Dawn Amsberry and “Stealing or Sharing? A Cross-Cultural Issues of Plagiarism in an Open-Source Era” by Russell Haitch, both go into depth for the reasons why it is harder for international students to settle into the western culture that has different beliefs on the seriousness of plagiarism actions. They both similarly discuss the challenges that international students face when coming to universities in the U.S. The unclear guidelines in plagiarism policies can be even harder for international students to understand. There are techniques that international students bring with them from the way they were taught in their countries to the U.S. and don’t understand that their techniques for writing, in the U.S. would be considered plagiarism. The authors also mention the probable causes for international students to unintentionally and intentionally plagiarize more than fluent speaking American students.
   	 Many scholars mentioned by Haitch concluded that international students are more likely to plagiarize unintentionally than intentionally because of several reasons. One reason would be that they clearly don’t understand what plagiarism means and the other reason is that English is their second language. Since English may not be their first language, it can be hard for students to figure out a way to express themselves in the English language and can cause international students to borrow an author’s idea and use it as their own (Haitch 269). If that is the case, then it can be problematic if students are not taught that in western culture education, borrowing an author’s work without giving credit is considered plagiarism. Haitch also mentions that because of the of intense pressure on international students, it causes them to patch write which is a way to put different sentences and paragraphs from different authors and placing it into their academic work (269). Patchwriting is a serious form of plagiarism and it can be detected early by an English professor in a university and it can cause serious punishment for international students. 
   	 Besides the different practices in other countries, Amsberry goes more into the data findings to see what is being discussed the understanding of plagiarism among international students. There were finding that concluded that 80% of international students from Australia believed that copying and pasting from the internet and inserting it into their academic work wasn’t considered plagiarism (Amsberry 33). As I mentioned before, the study from Gullifier and Tyson ties up with Amsberry’s findings on the broad understanding of plagiarism in Australian universities. In another survey conducted in eight countries to seek what was common knowledge and what information was to be cited and not cited, 47% of study participants from China believed that there wasn’t any citation necessary for magazines, but it was needed for academic journals. (Amsberry 33). China is actually a well-known country that has different educational practices and does not enforce citations to give credit to an author as much as they do in the U.S. Amsberry states that the expectation of having to write in a different language can be difficult for students from China, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan. It can give the students a temptation to use textual borrowing practices that are taught in their country that would be considered inappropriate in the American educational system (36). This may be the reason why Asian international students don’t understand was sourced need to be cited when borrowing an author’s work. The author also mentions a study made in the U.S. concluded that 87% of American students believed copying was plagiarism whereas 43% of Chinese students considered copying, plagiarism. When the students were asked if just changing a few words was enough to detect plagiarism, 48% of American students believed that it wasn’t enough whereas 55% of Chinese students believed that it was (Amsberry 34). These findings show that international students that have different educational practices have different opinions on what is considered plagiarism. It can negatively impact international students that have those beliefs. 
        	There are American instructors and faculty members that may believe that students can avoid plagiarizing their work by using online tools that detect plagiarism. Some may argue that students can simply avoid plagiarizing, but use tools like Turn in that show the percentage of work that can potentially be plagiarized. They may argue that international students can use this resource to help avoid plagiarism, but the problem is that Turnitin is not a tool to help students avoid plagiarism; it is a tool to detect plagiarism. I’ve used Turnitin before and it doesn’t tell me how to properly cite my source to drop the percentage down. These tools are very costly for universities and don’t always prevent students from plagiarizing. Casey Smith from the Department of Psychology at University, Anytown, author of “Does the adoption of the plagiarism-detection software in higher education reduces plagiarism?”  conducted a study to see if an online software like Turnitin.com, can prevent students from plagiarizing. The reason behind this study is because of the fundamental problem that the U.S. has with students that plagiarize their work. The idea was to see if a plagiarism detector like Turnitin.com helps students avoid plagiarizing their work. He wanted to see how many students would plagiarize their work after submitting their work to Turnitin.com. 
    	The study group for Smiths study was of ninety University undergraduate students majoring in psychology and introduction to Human Factors. There were two studies in within a 16-week span. Study 1 was split into two groups, the control group, and the experimental group. There would be the group that didn’t know that Turnitin would be used for their assignment and another group that was advised. Study 2 was similar, but instead, one group would be required to use citations to see what the software would detect, while the other group was not advised to use citation (Smith 752). The results in Study 1 showed that Turnitin.com detected 85% of the papers to be overlapping material which means that all those students used similar references that were detected from all the student's work (Smith 754). The results of Study 2 showed that students that were required to used citation actually had more plagiarism detected in their work than those students that citations were optional (Smith 754-755). Even with clear direction for students that needed to use citations and were advised that Turnitin.com would be used, the results showed that the website does not help students prevent plagiarizing. With the studies concluded, the specific instruction is given to students to help them avoid plagiarizing and the use of the Turnitin.com system failed to prevent plagiarism to the satisfaction of the researcher. 
    	Even with these great tools to detect plagiarism, it doesn’t help students avoid plagiarism beforehand. If a student does not know how to define plagiarism and university policies are not any help at all, then there needs to be a solution for prevention. In the article “Stealing or Sharing? A Cross-Cultural Issues of Plagiarism in an Open-Source Era” by Russell Haitch, a solution the author provides is pushing aside the detecting and punishing policies in universities and help students instead of by informing them of plagiarism in a detailed manner to prevent plagiarism (271-272).   Students need to know the more detailed information to help them properly borrow publications and properly give credit to whom they borrowed the resources from. Several solutions can be put into action to solve this problem in education. The first step to solving this problem is adding more clarity to university plagiarism policies and removing harsh punishment for students that plagiarize. It can be difficult to conclude that students plagiarize intentionally all the time because it can be a mistake that could’ve been solved if the student had the proper knowledge to avoid making the mistake in the first place. Universities need to put in place more plagiarism workshops that can help out students understand everything they need to know about plagiarism. Another effective solution that can be put into place is a one-semester course that introduces plagiarism to students and helps them develop their writing skills with avoidance of plagiarism. It can be something like English 1 that is given to students in University that need help with their writing skills. Instead, this course can focus only on the prevention of plagiarism in academic work. The next step would be testing incoming international students on their knowledge of plagiarism. After the results, if their knowledge does not meet a set requirement, they would need to take the course to fully understand what plagiarism is all about. All these can be potential solutions can help all students have a better understanding of plagiarism and can help them avoid plagiarizing intentionally or unintentionally. 
To emphasize once more, plagiarism is very hard to define in one sentence that comes out of a dictionary. It many intricate details like in a contract that not all students are aware of. Plagiarism policies in universities are not helping students understand the full meaning of what plagiarism stands for and how to avoid it. Unexplanatory plagiarism policies in universities do not directly cause students to plagiarize in their academic work but without a full detailed policy, a student would be more prone to plagiarizing in their work. An international student comes from different countries with different culture educational backgrounds where plagiarism is not defined in their academic work so coming to a country where plagiarism is not tolerated can be a critical problem for those students. Universities need to flourish their policies on plagiarism and have better resources for students to avoid plagiarism. All students need to have a better understanding of plagiarism to succeed in a university and at the end, it can improve a student’s writing skill which is very beneficial regardless of their majors.


. Works Cited
Amsberry, Dawn. "Deconstructing Plagiarism: International Students and Textual Borrowing Practices." Reference Librarian, vol. 51, no. 1, Jan-Mar2010, pp. 31-44. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/02763870903362183.
Gullifer, Judith and Graham A. Tyson. "Exploring University Students' Perceptions of Plagiarism: A Focus Group Study." Studies in Higher Education, vol. 35, no. 4, June 2010, pp. 463-481. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/03075070903096508.
Haitch, Russell. "Stealing or Sharing? Cross-Cultural Issues of Plagiarism in an Open-Source Era." Teaching Theology & Religion, vol. 19, no. 3, 01 July 2016, pp. 264-275. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1107329&site=ehost-live.
Voelker, Troy A., et al. "Plagiarism: What Don't They Know?." Journal of Education for Business, vol. 87, no. 1, Jan/Feb2012, pp. 36-41. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08832323.2011.552536.
Scith, Casey "Does the Adoption of Plagiarism-Detection Software in Higher Education Reduce Plagiarism?." Studies in Higher Education, vol. 36, no. 7, Nov. 2011, pp. 749-761. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/03075079.2010.523457.
“University.” Policies Home, http://removed-this-url.com/.
