Changing Public Space
	“It was in the echo of that terrified woman’s foot falls that I first began to know the unwieldy inheritance I’d come to – the ability to alter public space in ugly ways”. If you are a minority, more often than not, you have already experienced a situation similar to this. One day, while simply living your life, you have noticed you have changed an entire atmosphere simply by entering a room. White America has built a stigma around minorities , mainly blacks, that has classified them as violent, almost inhumane individuals. Brent Staples tackles this issue in his essay “Black Men and Public Space” where he addresses how African American men can put fear into the hearts of the majority simply by being in their presence. My own ability to “transform” public space was made apparent to me through my first experience in AP classes, meeting my white peers’ parents and lastly being interviewed for scholarships before entering college. 
	Growing up in Anytown, USA I attended a predominantly white high school. Although for most of my educational career I was in honors classes that were also predominantly white, AP classes were much different. I began my AP experience  during my junior year. When I had signed up to be apart of the English program. I began to notice the treatment of my work as opposed to my white counterparts after our first in class essay. The next day, as soon as I entered the room, I was pulled to the front of the class and instantly questioned. “Who was your teacher?” “Do they teach around here?” At first, I thought of these questions as complimentary, until the belittling statements followed. “I’ve just never had a black student write like you have!” These back handed statements immediately formed my future behavior in class. I started to always raise my hand, use bigger words and never argued or debated with y white peers, even if they were wrong, out of fear of how I would be perceived. I, more or less, took “precautions too make myself less threatening” , much like Staples did during his years of living in New York. By doing so, I made those of the majority feel more comfortable around me in order to avoid isolation or ridicule. 
	Meeting anyone’s parents for the first time is always nerve wrecking. You want to leave a first good impression and , of course, want the parents to love you. I, however, was meeting one of my closest friend’s parents, who were an older white couple in their late 50’s. Upon meeting them, I noticed they were very cautious while talking to me, always cutting their eye to their son as if they needed approval as to what to say next. I had been very respectful and polite , however , I had felt their nervous energy. When Staples had sent the young white woman running down a deserted street in Chicago, she was not afraid of Brent himself, more so she was scared of the thought of what he could have done to her, imply based on her idea of black men. The stereotype that young black males are almost barbaric is what sent her running. Just as the stereotype that black women are often angry and impulsive clouded  peers’ family’s first impression of me.
	When applying  for scholarships, they very rarely ask about race. Financial status and overall G.P.A. usual is what they focus on, or so I thought. After I was informed that I had been considered for a very hefty scholarship, I was called and told that I was scheduled for an interview. I was dressed in my best business attire and had practiced what I may have had to say in the most professional voice I could conjure up. However, when I arrived to the interview , I couldn’t help to feel as though I was not being taken seriously. The interviewer was picky with her words, making sure to “dumb” a few questions down for me and omitting words she figured I simply did not understand. I kindly reminded her that I was in fact an A.P. students and fully understood the questions she had prepared, she hastily ended the interview in fear of me becoming hostile. Although I was qualified for the interview before, once it was known that I was indeed black, I was treated as though I was out of place. 
	African Americans ability to change how those around us act by simply being present is not an illusion. Over the years we have been subjugated to violent stereotypes. Some of which timid Staples himself could not escape. Even when placed in situations that involve no violence at all, we are seen as aggressors. Often we ourselves even change our mannerisms in order to make the majority more comfortable. However, minorities will always be seen as aggressive due to the stereotypes that have plagued our race over the years.
