
Extra credit and credit recovery
Throughout high school and college many students hit ups and downs. Sometimes they can do extremely well in one subject but poorly in another. Whatever the problem is, there are times when students fail a class because they need one or two more percent points to pass. Others fail multiple classes and need to pass just one class to graduate. Luckily, there is extra credit and credit recovery to help them. Both of these have help many students pass a class, therefore, meeting the requirements to graduate or advance to the next course. Extra credit can help students perform better on test, earn extra points to pass a class, and motivated them to learn. Credit recovery can help a student meet the requirements to graduate and it can be completed very quickly. Even though both of these help many students, there has been some negativity towards both. Some teachers may argue that extra credit is a waste of time since many students don’t complete the extra credit assignments they offered. Some students argue that credit recovery classes are way too difficult, sometimes even more difficult than the class itself. Whatever the case, extra credit and credit recovery can have many benefits towards students.
	One reason why extra credit is a good idea is because it can help the students perform better in tests, depending on the method they use. In Ryall Carroll article “The Merits of Giving an Extra Credit Quiz” discusses the the reason why he is giving extra credit in his class. The two main reason were to have students get to his class in time and to increase students test grades. Carroll was tired of students coming into his class late and getting low test scores, so he came up with an extra credit quiz that fixed both of his problems. He came up with an extra credit quiz every day that reviewed the previous material to reward the students who came in early. There were several reason as to why the students came.The number one reason why students came was to improve their overall grades. The others reason was for security just in case they did horrible in a big test or a big project. Many students thought that Carroll was just being generous but little did they know the genius of his plan(Carroll 151-152). The method that Carroll implemented was a good way to get the most out of his students. The quizzes that he created were all based on the lesson that he had taught. If they wanted to pass his quizzes they had to study the material in order to get the points. Since the students were constantly studying the material, they did better on the test and regular quiz he gave. Carroll said, “I have been giving these quizzes for years now, and in many different classes, and have consistently found , as one could imagine, a high correlation between quiz scores and the student’s exam and final grades”(Carroll). Carroll’s method of extra credit helps in three ways. It directly gives students points, it serves as review before the actual exam, and it helps increase the attendance of his class. Extra credit can be beneficial because it can help students improve their test scores.
Another reason why extra credit is beneficial is because it can raise a student's grade to pass a course. Every student has faced a time where they failed to turn in an assignment or did poorly on a test. Depending on how bad they did or how much points it's worth it can affect the student's grade. Just one assignment can mean the difference between an “A” or “B”. For other students they could have missed multiple assignments. Then when they realize they are at risk of failing in class they begin to put in effort, but at the end they are just a couple of points from passing the class. In Philip A. Jensen and Randy Moore article “Students’ Behaviors, Grades & Perceptions in an Introductory Biology Course” they performed an experiment. In the study they wanted to see how many students would take the opportunity to do  an extra credit assignment. To receive the credit they had to write a short essay on the question that they miss on their finial. When it was time to turn it in the professor got over 100 submissions out of 146 students. Over 64 students passed the class because of the submission of extra credit. The other wanted to improve their grades from a “C+” to a”B-” or  a “B+” to a “A-” in the class. (Jensen and Moore pg.483 - 484). As one can see, if there wasn’t extra credit some students would have failed the class and would have to retake the same course the next semester. Every student can benefit from extra credit in some way. Personally, it has helped me go from a “B+” to “A-” many times in high school. It has help many of my friends go from a 67% to a 70%. In my high school we had no “D” policy so a 60% - 69% was an “F”. The fact is that extra credit can help a student pass a class or get a higher letter grade makes this grade booster very beneficial.
The third reason why extra credit is beneficial is because it motivates a student to perform better. In Aubrey Olsen and Elisa Harding Hunt article “Five Easy Ways to Increase Participation and Improve Motivation” you can see several examples on how to motivate students. One example was to give a question that is worth one point extra credit. The author is amazed on how many students participated in order to get that one point of extra credit. The second method is to have a white board race. Here students complete with one another to see who can solve a problem or fix a question first. The first student to complete or fix the question gets the extra credit. The third method is a pop quiz. Students have to answer three question and for each one they get correct they get a point. The fourth is a game called mind reading in where the students guess what the teacher is thinking, usually about the lesson. It is both fun and rewarding for the students that participate. The last method is ring-around-the-paragraph. A students writes a paragraph and then passes it to another. It is suppose to be fun for the students and if they want to get extra credit the student can read the silly essay to get one point extra credit. Each of these methods both engage the student and motivated them to learn(Olse and Hunt pg.55 - 59). Students will do almost anything for extra credit. While some of the methods that Olse and Hunt used may seem ridiculous, the first three ideas are not that bad. These three methods require students to know the information given if they want any chance to receive the credit. It can cause the student to pay attention more in class and motivate them to learn. Even though a student may not get the credit, they will still learn the information and perform better in class. If the professor uses the right method involving extra credit it can motivate the student making extra credit beneficial.
Credit recovery can help a student pass a class to meet the requirements of graduation. This is a given because it is what credit recovery was made for. In Nadine P. Anderson’s article, “Plato Online Credit Recovery Programs for Meeting Promotional and Graduation Requirements” you see some quick information about several acts that are being utilized by the students. Then it goes on to give information about students graduating. According her studies, one third of high students are at risk of not graduating. There were many reasons why they failed to graduate, but the main reason was due to not having enough credits at the end of the year. The thing that shock her was that more than half just needed to pass only one class to graduate. Lucky for them credit recovery allowed them to pass that one class to meet graduation requirement(Anderson). As one can see, credit recovery can be extremely useful. Some students  fail several class because as freshman's they don’t realize that everything counts. According to Anderson, freshman year is the year where most of the students fail the most classes (Anderson). Credit recovery has helped these students pass several classes to graduate. While I didn’t have to take any credit recovery class myself, many of my friends did. Let me just say that if it wasn’t for these classes, they would not have graduated with the rest of us. These classes just barely made them reach the requirements to graduate. The fact that credit recovery classes can help students reach their graduation requirements is one of it’s many benefits.
Another reason why credit recovery is beneficial is because, depending on the school program, a student can complete the course really fast. In the Teri Pettyjohn and Jason LaFrance article “Online Credit Recovery: Benefits and Challenges” they discuss how some courses are designed so that students take a pre-test. With that, they only have to complete the sections of the course in which they were unsuccessful. This way, students are able to complete the course and experience success much more quickly. This motivated the students to perform better on the pre-test, since the more questions a student answered correctly the faster they could leave (Pettyjohn and LaFrance pg.205- 206). Students don’t want to be in a credit recovery course. A student has to stay several hours after school just learn things that he may know already. They may have failed the class but there are some things they learned. This is a waste of time, since the students can be doing other productive things like homework or doing another credit recovery course. The pretest makes it so it analyzes what a student already knows. At the same time it motivate them to try in the test. That way they just have to work on the subjects they don’t know. If school were to adopt this method, it would make students complete the course faster making it beneficial.
Even though extra credit has many benefits it is not so popular to many teachers. One of the reason why it is unpopular is because many students don’t complete the extra credit assignment the teachers offer. In John C. Norcross, Linda J. Horrocks, and John F. Stevenson article “Of Barfights and Gadflies: Attitudes and Practices Concerning Extra Credit in College Course” they discuss a test done by two universities to see if students will complete a extra credit assignment. In their test they surveyed a group of 327 full-time students. The extra credit assignment was to complete a total five questionnaires. When the days pass and it’s time to turn in the assignment, only 44 students complete all the questionnaires (Horrocks, Norcross, and Stevenson pg.200-202). This is one reason why many teachers aren’t fond of giving extra credit. They offer it but many don’t take advantage of it. By not completing the assignment, the students wasted their professor’s time. The same test was done towards the end of the semester with different questionnaires. This time 294 students completed all the questionnaires (Horrocks, Norcross, and Stevenson pg.200-202). I believe this shift happened because they realized how hard college really is and because the semester is about to end and many are worried about their grades. In high school, teachers were not the harshest graders. In my high school many student would turn in a paper several weeks after the due date and still get a high grade. There was no reason to do extra credit and when it was offered not many students did it. In college a late assignment can get you a zero or an 60%. When a student realize that they need extra credit, there is none because little students did the first extra credit assessment they offered. 
While credit recovery has help many students pass, many argue that the courses are way to difficult. In Carr Sarah’s article “Credit Recovery Hits the Mainstream” he discusses the benefits of credit recovery. Since they added it,  their graduation rate has increased. There were several benefits that credit recovery has presented. Then there was section about the students thoughts about the courses. More than 60 percent of the student taking a credit recovery course said it was too difficult, even more than the class itself. Which resulted in some not even going to class to finish the course in credit recovery or giving little effort (Carr). I can see why credit recovery may be hard. Students only meet a couple days a week and the teacher has to get a whole course with the little time they have, which is two to three hours. The course may not be that hard, but the amount of work that they have to complete may be what makes it difficult. In the article the students said that the course was hard. They had to memorize many subjects in the short time they had and the worksheets and quizzes ask question that weren’t that relevant to the subject. They had to complete many worksheets that weren’t relevant to the subject that they learned. Credit recovery isn’t supposed to be that challenging. The fact that the credit recovery class is harder the the actual class itself is a reason why many student aren’t a big fan of it.
Extra credit and credit recovery has help many students in various ways. These methods were made to help the students. Extra credit has help students to perform better on test, get extra points to pass a class, and motivate the to learn. Credit recovery has help a student meet the requirements to graduate and it can be completed very quickly. Even though both of these are help to many there has been some negativity. Some teachers argue that extra credit is a waste of time since students don’t complete the them. Some students  argue that credit recovery is way too difficult even more difficult than the class. Whatever the case cxtra credit and  credit recovery can have many benefits towards students. If these to were taken away many students will not have pass a class or have graduated. There are many benefits that extra credit and credit recovery have that will help students succeed.
Work Cited:
Anderson, Nadine P. "Plato Online Credit Recovery Programs for Meeting Promotional and 
Graduation Requirements." Distance Learning, vol. 13, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 7-12.
EBSCOhostsearch.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=118140452&sit
e=ehost-live.
Carroll, Ryall. "The Merits of Giving an Extra Credit Quiz." College Teaching, vol. 62, no. 4,     
Fall 2014, pp. 151-152. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/87567555.2014.935698.
CARR, SARAH. "Credit Recovery Hits the Mainstream." Education Next, vol. 14, no. 3, 
Summer2014, pp. 30-36. EBSCOhost, 
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=96215748&site=eho
st-live.
Jensen, Philip A. and Randy Moore. "Students' Behaviors, Grades & Perceptions in an 
Introductory Biology Course." American Biology Teacher (National Association of Biology 
Teachers), vol. 70, no. 8, Oct. 2008, pp. 483-487. EBSCOhost, 
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=34780071&site=ehost-live.
Norcross, John C., et al. "Of Barfights and Gadflies: Attitudes and Practices Concerning 
Extra Credit in College Courses." Teaching of Psychology, vol. 16, no. 4, Dec. 
1989, p. 199. EBSCOhost, 
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=6383671&site=ehost
-live.
Olsen, Aubrey and Elisa Harding Hunt. "Five Easy Ways to Increase Participation and Improve 
Motivation." TESL Reporter, vol. 43, no. 1, Apr. 2010, pp. 55-57. EBSCOhost, 
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=51641330&site=ehost-live.


Pettyjohn, Teri, Jason LaFrance. 2014. "Online Credit Recovery: Benefits and 
Challenges." NCPEA Education Leadership Review of Doctoral Research, 1 (1). 
http://www.ncpeapublications.org/volume-1-number-1/611-online-credit-recover
y-benefits-and-challenges.html
