Breastfeeding in Public Lit Review 

	From the beginning of time, mothers have been breastfeeding their children in order to supply them with the best source of nutrients possible. However, as time progressed, breastfeeding started to draw some controversy. The decision of mothers to breastfeed their children in public has been a topic that is widely discussed by both mothers and nonmothers for years. Some people may find the act to be “disgusting” or inappropriate for the public eye to be witnessing. Other people see no problem with this happening and feel that if a child needs to eat, the mother should feed them. The question being asked here, is why was there a switch. Why is breastfeeding in public such a controversial topic and why are people against it in the first place?
	 Joey Salads from YouTube created a social experiment in January of 2016. The main point of the experiment was to see how people reacted to a nursing mother breastfeeding in public. The mother, Emily, simply explained to the people that her son was hungry and she had to feed him and that was it. Half of the women who came up to Emily were disgusted by what they were seeing and asked the mother to find a different place to feed her child. The other half of the women had no problem with what Emily was doing and encouraged her to feed her baby. On the other hand, all of the men who stopped to talk to this mother had an extreme problem with seeing breastfeeding in public. They both had a severe problem with it and asked her to go find a new location. This video proves how controversial the topic of breastfeeding in public truly is. 
	A few weeks later, Joey Salads posted a second video to YouTube, this one was titled “Sexy vs Breastfeeding in Public (Social Experiment)”. The whole synopsis of this video was that a model was planted in a mall wearing a seductive, low cut top, and observed how people reacted. In the same mall, Emily was back and breastfeeding her baby. Later on in the video, both the model and Emily sat side by side and watched the differences in the reactions they received. When the model was sitting in the mall, only one guy came up to her and talked to her, but no one said anything negative about her breasts being exposed for the public viewing. When Emily was sitting in the mall, both a man and a woman had a large problem with Emily feeding her son in public while one soon to be mother confided in Emily and encouraged her to continue feeding her baby. Once Emily and the mother were placed side by side, everyone who passed by commented on how “disgusting” it was to see Emily doing such an activity. Most of the people’s reasoning was “if that is how the model’s shirt is, that’s fine but that mom is making that choice and it is not ok”. This video shows the stigma that comes with breastfeeding in public and how sexualized the breast has become. 
	One counterpoint article that explains reasons why women should not breastfeed in public is called, “Breastfeeding Should Be Private”. This article talks about how there are disease concerns that the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention have made public. One of these is that breast milk is a bodily fluid and therefore can transmit diseases such as HIV and hepatitis B. The article also mentions the opinion that “the needs and desires of one person should not trump the comfort and safety of many”. Meaning that even though this one baby may need to eat, the mother is now making everyone around her uncomfortable and putting them at risk for possibly diseases. Because of this it shows a different side of the breastfeeding controversy and sheds lights on other opinions that should be considered. 
	The second counterpoint came from a website entitled MotherHow. This website talked about potential cons to breastfeeding in public. The one con focused more on the health and wellbeing of the mother and child versus the thoughts of the public around her. Stress can cause a mother to have issues producing enough breast milk, so if she is worried about how the public may perceive her breastfeeding, she may be overcome with stress and not be able to provide for the baby. Another counterargument suggested that because the woman’s breast is exposed, she may be drawing attention to herself from unwanted viewers. Whether it is a man who feel compelled to look or a child who doesn’t understand breasts or the process of breastfeeding yet, the attention is something that is not wanted and can be avoided if breastfeeding takes place in a private location. This website provides counterpoints that have more depth to them than just the opinions of the surrounding public. 
	The last source was an overview of the history and controversy of breastfeeding in general. The article is entitled, “Breastfeeding in Public: Overview”. This article explains thoughts and points from New York University professor Amy Bentley who blames the sexualization of the female breast on the post-world war ll era which was also the start of Playboy. This article mentions that certain groups of people sited studies that show the benefits of breastfeeding, along with other groups of people who cited studies that showed the benefits of formula feeding. The article also mentions that the controversy became more intense whenever women entered the work force because now they were not confined to their house and have to feed their child while they are out doing their daily tasks. This article was helpful in explaining some of the history and background of both breastfeeding and the controversy dealing with breastfeeding in public. 
	The issue of breastfeeding in public is one that has been around for a while, and needs to be abolished. The sources that have been examined show both sides to the argument and provide valid arguments for both. Between learning the history of the topic and thoughts from both parties, one can see how breastfeeding in public may not be something that should be encouraged. However, the positive out way the negatives along with the fact that America needs to abolish the stigma of sexualizing the female breast. There is no definite solution to this issue but educating the public is the first step that will lead the population in the direction of accepting this natural experience.
