Internships are worth the time
	Building up skills, knowledge, and overall experience is key for any workplace; in order to be the best you can be in your profession you need to take advantage of different opportunities. One thing that is being more noticed in the workplace is how much of an impact internships are affecting the abilities of graduate students once they enter the workforce. Students are learning a lot about their future career while in college however what some students lack is the skill of knowing how to do the actual job. By having every student be part of an internship will only benefit them in many different ways such as giving them some experience as well as seeing if it is something they wish to continue. Although some may say it is not that necessary and it only takes away time and focus from college students, research has shown that employers are hiring students who have had some experience such as an internship. College students should be trying to find an internship that will help them possibly see their future, although it may take time away from academics they should still pursue one because it is just as important. Some disagree with the importance of internships and not believing it is as important as it seems because it shifts the student’s mentality from school to work which can possibly lead to bad grades. Students need to know what they are heading into once they get their degree, a student can graduate but not have a clue what to expect and how to get a job.
	Internships are becoming essential in the workplace, college students are encouraged to pursue an internship because of the impact it will make on them. Students get a look at their possible careers and this not only benefits them but colleges because students realize on their own if that is the career they want to keep pursuing. Just because someone graduates from college does not mean they are guaranteed a job, throughout their four plus years in college they need to create connection and gain that experience. By doing these two things they will increase their chances of being hired more quickly, internships are becoming crucial to ones resume because of how prepared you become which makes you more qualified for those college students that were never part of an internship. An internship will prepare a student with a variety of skills, all college students should be required to do an internship before graduation because although some would rather focus on their academics than an internship they are missing out on a huge opportunity. 
	An internship is being described in one word which is “Transformative” because of the transformation it takes on a college student intern. The article “Lessons Learned from Experiential Learning: What Do Students Learn from a Practicum/Internship?” by Lori Simons and other faculty at Widener University states internships bring too many benefits for someone to not do one, after doing some research and surveys they noticed the results portrayed internships as more than great. The article claims that colleges should create a program where they learn what is needed in order to get an internship and once they complete that the college helps place them in different internships depending on their career objective. “Students are required to apply “real world” experiences to the academic content and to use this knowledge to make informed decisions about their career paths” (P.1) this quote explains how students will adjust to the job they are doing and become more comfortable with the internship they are a part of. Having a program will increase the employment chances of those graduate students who do not know how to get hired after college.
	Allowing students to have an internship program and actually partnering them up with someone in their careers will allow them to “gain extensive real-world experience” (P.2) as Simons states. One of the studies conducted by Reddy Hill in 2002 featured thirty-two student interns and the results showed how students in this program gained communication skills, time management, confidence, as well as responsibility by participating in this internship program. (P.2) Overall internships have some really great effects on students and help them improve many different things such as the ones stated in the article, this is worth spending time on. Skills such as these cannot be attained through just academics, the reason why they cannot is because they need that experience and not just knowledge through books. This is one of the reasons why students need to be required to do a internship, students who just graduate without having done so do not fully get their money’s worth because they never seized an internship throughout their four plus years. 
	Simons gives his audience an idea of how internship programs should be available to college students, seeing how much of an impact it can be should make colleges make internships a requirement. There are unpaid internships or paid internships but one of the newest ideas is talked about in the article “Curriculum innovation in undergraduate accounting degree programmes through “virtual internships” by Leopold Bayerlein. The author claims that virtual internships should be implemented because they might be more convenient allowing almost anyone to be part of one. A virtual internship is “The Developed teaching model allows students to gain technical expertise within a virtual workplace setting without prioritizing vocational training over educational outcomes.” (P.3) This virtual internship program will allow students to get almost the same experience as a normal internship but will not be able to be hands on. Students who are not able to be physically present will need to do a virtual internship if colleges were to require internships in order to graduate. As you can see it is possible for colleges to make internships a requirement because of the new technology allowing virtual internships to actually work. 
	Allowing students to be responsible for their own learning will replicate real-world workplace situation and some of the student advantages when it comes to virtual internships are is they actually feel as if they are in the workplace and research has shown it increases student engagement. Students are going to be spending a lot of time on their internship therefore they need to find what works best for them and if it is virtually than that is what they should pick. Students who decide virtually is personally better for them can have possibly decided this because they are not afraid to engage or ask questions because it is not in person therefore they cannot be seen by the employer. More ideas are being created because almost everyone sees how much of a benefit it is and the more options college students have the better it is for not only students but everyone part of the internship. If a student has an accident or is disabled and cannot get from point a to point b then this allows them to still have the same opportunities everyone else is getting whether it is in person, online, no-pay or paid.
	Internships not only benefit students but higher-level institutions and employers as well according to the article “effects of business internships on student employers, and higher education institutions: a systematic review” by Gisela Sanahuja Velez and Gabriela Ribes Giner. “University education focuses on teaching theoretical knowledge, but employers demand practical skills and experience, leaving college students without work experience little chance of successfully competing for jobs” (P.1) The authors argue that universities are not realizing how much of a positive impact it can make on three specific stakeholders which are students, employers, and higher-level institutions. 
	As you can see research as shown that students are the ones affected the most by internships, Snahuja and Ribes explains how it impacts them and this only proves why every student should be required to invest their time and effort on an internship. As I previously stated, it helps student’s chances at receiving employment opportunities, research has shown that students who do not have that internship experience are less likely to be hired and therefore a student who does would be hired instead. It improves skills as well as competencies which will overall prepare you for the real workforce once a college student graduates, students should leave confident about their skills not just the knowledge they received in their four years. An internship can also help a student explore the career and really see if it is like what they think it will be like once they graduate.
	The article continues about the benefits of students and internships because they help reduce reality shocks, develop realistic expectations and research shows that it actually better’s your college performance.  One of the main claims the authors make about benefitting students that really stood out to me was that it better’s your college performance. It shows that students who are more devoted on their career are more likely to succeed in their academics while in college as well as outside of their academics once they reach their job post-graduation. Some disagree that it is too time consuming that it is not worth it, this study shows that it actually is by making your progress even more academically. 
	Sanahuja and Ribes explain how it is not just students but one other stakeholders that it affects in a positive way is the effects of internships on higher education institutions. By having internship programs at their university, this allows them to enhance reputation and visibility, what this means is colleges will be more likely to have more students applying to their institution. By having different types of internships with different businesses around the location where the college is at can be a great opportunity in the future to fund raise or receive some type of donation from a partnership. The authors make another great point on how amazing internships can impact many different things, college institutions should see this as a huge opportunity making a new curriculum where they require students to experience an internship.
	Throughout the research I have done they all agree with Sanahuja and Ribes on the third stakeholder internships affect in a positive way which is employers. Employers are looking for students who have had experience and are not going to have to be taught everything from scratch. Employers benefit by savings on recruitment costs, this means employers know that they are hiring someone who can do the job and will not be fired in a week or two. Employers are more likely to hire someone who has had that experience which should make every student want to be part of one. In order for graduate students to get a job quickly after graduation they need to make sure they can put internship on their resume because that is now the most important thing to have on there.
	There may be many benefits for students as well as higher level institutions and employers but there are those who disagree with the importance of internships. The reason why some students believe that internships are not as important as they seem is because of how much time you need to devote yourself. Some students are not willing to spend their time on an internship because they believe it is not worth it and would rather focus on their academics instead. They will most likely not want to do a non-paying internship because they feel like they are not gaining anything from it, but they are. Those who disagree with being part of an internship do not see all of the benefits that come along with it until they graduate and do not know how to get a job because their resume does not have experience or they do not have connections. 
	The article “academic performance of college students: influence of time spent studying & working” by Sarath A. Nonis and Gail I. Hudson from Arkansas State University, research the stereotype “students who spend more time on academic related activities outside of class do better than those who don’t” (P.2) The study conducted that students are not only affected by work academically but by other factors such as abilities, motivation and behavior.  The authors prove that even though work or also known as an internship can be a huge factor in affecting a college student academically there are many others as well. According to the article “In 1987 when this question was asked of entering freshmen, 47% claimed they spent 6 or more hours per week studying outside of class. Since then, the time spent studying outside of class has declined steadily each year.” (P.1) This shows that students need to devote a lot of time to study for their courses or else they are more likely to fail, if an internship that was no-pay were to be offered to someone who is struggling academically they most likely will reject it.
	Those who do not want to take part in an internship are worried that they might do worse academically because their mindset and time shifts to an internship however that is not the case. As research has shown internships actually help you academically, if students are worried that they are not ready for an internship or do not have the time for it, I think they should rethink it. Seeing all the positive things that come along with them will make these students who are not willing to participate in them want to. If colleges make this a requirement the students who might think they are not needed will change their mindset after it and realize it is worth spending time on. The article “academic performance of college students: influence of time spent studying & working” highlights the fact that students will be more successful if they spend their time on academics and only academics but students need to attain experience not just knowledge taught at higher-level institutions.
	Overall, colleges should make students take part in an internship by making it a requirement in order to graduate. Although some colleges already emphasize internships and do give some opportunities some students just ignore it because they do not see the point in them or the benefits that come along with them. Students need to realize that they will struggle much more after graduation when trying to find a job if they do not have that experience that employers are looking for and for those who do have it will be hired much faster. The stereotype that students that focus on academics only and not any type of work are more successful academically than those who do multiple things should change because research shows that things have changed and students can do well academically when balancing school and an internship. All in all, colleges need to make internships a requirement for their students especially since it benefits them as well but students are the ones who need to take advantage of opportunities whenever they come up because they can change your career for the better.











Work Cited
Bayerlein, Leopold. "Curriculum Innovation in Undergraduate Accounting Degree Programmes through “Virtual Internships”." Education + Training, vol. 57, no. 6, Aug. 2015, pp. 673-684. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1108/ET-09-2014-0110.

Nonis, Sarath A. and Gail I. Hudson. "Academic Performance of College Students: Influence of Time Spent Studying and Working." Journal of Education for Business, vol. 81, no. 3, Jan/Feb2006, pp. 151-159. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=19949456&site=ehost-live.

Sanahuja Vélez, Gisela and Gabriela Ribes Giner. "Effects of Business Internships on Students, Employers, and Higher Education Institutions: A Systematic Review." Journal of Employment Counseling, vol. 52, no. 3, Sept. 2015, pp. 121-130. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/joec.12010.

Simons, Lori, et al. "Lessons Learned from Experiential Learning: What Do Students Learn from a Practicum/Internship?." International Journal of Teaching & Learning in Higher Education, vol. 24, no. 3, Nov. 2012, pp. 325-334. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ehh&AN=90457595&site=ehost-live.
