Maya Angelou’s Strengthened Connection to Her Audience in “Letter to My Daughter” Through Rhetoric Usage
	An excerpt from Maya Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter” expresses her early childhood life to her teenage years. Angelou uses immersive imagery and use of pathos to allow her audience to sympathize with her. The usage of rhetoric devices creates connections with her audience and allows them to learn from her actions and emotions. Maya Angelou also sends a message through the text that the subtly introduces her broken childhood and her teenage pregnancy. As Angelou continues with her stories, she utilizes characterization of herself by subtly skipping time to keep a continuous flow of the narrative. This allows her to fast-forward in time while stopping at unique points of her life,and the climax of the excerpt ,as she reflects upon it to tell her daughter why she came to be the person she is.
	Angelou’s use of pathos appeals to the audience's sense of emotions. When Angelou reflects on her body as a teen she relates to millions of self conscious readers when discussing how and why she had her first sexual experience. She goes on to appeal to the audience's emotions through her fear of bringing “shame” to her family for becoming pregnant before reaching her highschool graduation. This fear is the reality many teens face which is a reflection of the high teen pregnancy rates within the U.S., especially California. The life that Angelou had lived reflects many California audiences lives of being raised away from their immediate families or being raised without a biological parent in their life. Aside from relating to the audience at the time of publication, Angelou was also able to connect with the audience of today if not more. With the rise of broken families in the world the pathos appeal spreads across more individuals and their emotions.
	In Tim Jensen’s article “Textbook Pathos: Tracing a Through-Line of Emotion in Composition Textbooks,” the use of pathos is shown to define and specify emotions. To explain the emotion along with introducing pathos adds to the implicit understanding of the pathos. By stating the emotions it can provoke interest as well as start conversation which gives evidence to the pathos and vice-versa. Analytical exploration in the development of a text invites a great deal of emotional expression, and develops a well layered essay. Explicitly defining emotion to better explain the pathos would in turn trigger attention to how we define pathos implicitly. The author uses pathos as a tool, thus the way the author uses the pathos is a method to how he or she wants to express herself. After the author explicitly defines pathos in relation to their emotion and implementing it among logos and ethos, the majority of texts urge caution to appeal to the audiences principles and reasoning rather than their ignorance and prejudice. If the writer does not use their full efforts to clarify our concepts, the reader will most likely struggle to engage with them to the degree or in the manner that the author desires(7-12).
	As pathos is shown to increase in effectiveness through explicit statement. Subtle hints that lead to the pathos aid the audience and gives them the motivation to look into the text and uncover the meaning. Giving the audience the ability to look into the context of the letter beyond the actual words further increases their desire to uncover more. In Angelou’s letter she implies that there is no love between her and her son’s father which leads to the pathos that shows the lack of love. The pathos is then followed by explicit statement of the lack of love between the two. The build up leading to the actual pathos is strengthened due to the explicit and implicit statements that the pathos tries to express. The pathos expressing Angelou’s displeasure to moving to California with her mother is then reinforced by the disappointment in herself because of the one smile she shared in the excerpt. When brought to the end of the excerpt the idea of emotional expression is then again resurfaced as she finally holds her first born child and clearly states that she is “proud”(Angelou,68). It reveals an intriguing array of imagery types, functions, and conditions, which shape the achievement of the individual's desired goals.
	Angelou shows that she comes from a broken home, being that she was raised by her grandmother and later shows that she has a stepfather. The characterization of her younger self is then threatened as she moves from her grandmother’s to feeling upset about living with her mother. Her unwelcome life changed turned her from a little innocent girl in Alabama to being surrounded by her mother and partying. More pathos is used as a layer of expressing Angelou’s childhood to the audience and addresses the problem of many homes in the U.S. By doing this Angelou reveals her similarities to her audience. As she arrived to California Angelou felt like an outsider; being away from her grandmother and being in a new environment and around parties that her mother hosted. The imagery paints the scenes as Angelou witnessed it which connect the imagery she uses with the pathos that expresses her emotion to the audience.
	Throughout the excerpt Angelou gives specific detail to her life. As she grows from being her grandmother’s “shadow”(Angelou,17). Angelou paints a picture of how close she followed and acted like her grandmother. The comparison of her to a shadow gives the image in the mind of the reader that she stuck to her grandmother which shows how close she was to her grandmother and gives a glimpse of the pain she suffered when she was moved from Alabama to live with her mother in California. Later in her life as Angelou describes the scene in which she had sex with a boy, but as she describes how she had made a mistake and afterward that she immediately dressed and “was at the front door”(Angelou,40). The lack of intimacy showed the distance and lack of love between the two. Angelou painted the picture of her being objectified and used for sexual purposes. As Angelou gives birth her mother “jumped off the table,” she bestows the excitement and interest of her first born child to the audience. 
	In Letty Chan’s article “Facets of imagery in academic and professional achievements: A study of three doctoral students ,” studies show that imagery should be vivid to interest audiences. Intrinsic motivation from imagery has been shown to be more effective when retaining knowledge from imagery. When imagery is expressed in a way that subtly incorporates itself into the story at a level that is graspable to the reader, then imagery is able to be incorporated into how the reader thinks of the novel as he or she is reading. He expresses how the different types of imagery affect the reader's perception of the text. The imagery type used, like imagery of mental rehearsal, may motivate the reader to finish text and complete other tasks. The use of imagery in text is shown to be extremely effective when influencing audiences as well as drawing the audience closer to the author’s perception of the text(412-413).
	Chan’s article shows that effective imagery types calls the reader’s attention and makes them think of the actual meaning behind the text. In relation to Angelou’s letter, her imagery gives vivid detail that shows the point that her early life was not fully happiness. As the audience reads the letter they’re attracted to the magnetism that is her life. This motivates the the reader to see how her life unfolded and how similar it is to theirs. The imagery of a novel or piece of work should be able to attract audiences into reading further. The actions of Angelou’s mother as she delivers the baby builds up tension and excitement as the boy is explicitly said to have been born. The mental imagery radiates with a sense of happiness and accomplishment for Angelou being able to graduate and give birth to new life. This influence of being a mother extends to the audience through the mental image that Angelou creates from being able to share her experience of her mother being ready to “catch”(Angelou,66) her son to being able to hold him.
	As the letter progresses Maya quickly progresses from a child to a teen and then to the climax of the excerpt when she is giving birth. Little breaks were in between different stages of her life; it gives a fluid motion to the letter and reflects how quickly she grew up. Just from a few paragraphs she starts as a girl living with her brother and grandmother in Alabama to  teenager in California with her mother. The quick changes in her age and moments in life is symbolic of how life comes by at the blink of an eye. The letter also depicts that the fast pace narrative is a mental representation of Angelou reflecting back on her life to tell her daughter of her life. The true shock that Maya brings to the audience was that she becomes pregnant just after describing her first sexual experience, which builds up the narrative and creates suspicion of the birth of Angelou’s daughter. It then goes on to skip the months between her pregnancy so the focus of the climax could be her breaking the news to the audience and finally giving birth. The lack of anger in the dialogue of both Angelou's mother and stepfather, although not initially stated, gave the audience a hint that neither parents would think of the baby as a disgrace to the family.
	In the excerpt Maya doesn’t directly reference her daughter. When beginning she starts by explaining her childhood and eventually leads to the birth of her first child, a son. This build and explanation of her early life appears to lead to what will eventually be the birth of her daughter. The explanation of her pregnancy seems particular to telling a woman. The expression of her physical inadequacies leading to her having sex with a boy who she did not love appears as a lesson to her daughter. In hopes of learning from her actions Maya seems to explain why she was such a young mother as well as a warning to her daughter and the young women and men in the audience. The pride she expresses also seems to tell the audience that even though a baby may come from a wrong situation it is still beautiful and represents an extension of yourself.
	Instead of Maya Angelou being quick to explicitly point out what her emotions were and being too blatant, she uses these devices to say more in less words by letting her reader think about the emotions she goes through. The less words used in the letter the more it appears as dialogue. The lack of words create more layers for rhetorics which give more meaning in what is not said between the people in the letter. The childish views of Angelou’s brother being the smartest person in the world and her believing it make the voice of Angelou appear to become more grown as she ages in the letter while at the same time being sophisticated throughout the excerpt. As her voice ages it begins naive and happy and soon grows shallow in the way that her emotions seem to be less happy. This happiness once again appears with the birth of her own child. Her childhood shows her happiness which she meets once again following the birth of her on son.
	Maya Angelou’s rhetoric devices portrays her emotions in the letter as events unfold. The pathos of her letter brings the reader closer to sharing her experience. The quick pace of the letter moves through time in a way which shows the main highlights of her early life. The devices used creates layers that show both the events within Angelou’s life as well as the emotions she had. Angelou also use devices to connect with the audience and indirectly speak to them of her experiences that the audience can both learn from and relate to. The keypoints of her life are emphasized by both the explanation in the fast paced timeline and the rhetoric devices which layers the letter and fills it with both emotion as well as life lessons. With an individual's past being the driving factor that turns them into the person they will forever be; Angelou’s letter depicts her speaking to her daughter about her life and explaining her personality.



Works Cited:
Angelou, Maya. 2008. Excerpt“Letter to My Daughter” By SIGNATURE January 1, 2012
http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost
Chan, Letty. 2013. “Facets of imagery in academic and professional achievements: A study of three doctoral students ” University of Nottingham, UK
http://pressto.amu.edu.pl/index.php/ssllt/article/view/5020/5104
Jensen, Tim. 2016. “Textbook Pathos: Tracing a Through-Line of Emotion in Composition Textbooks” Composition Forum 34, Summer 2016
http://compositionforum.com/issue/34/textbook-pathos.php
