Subject: Strengths and Interests

Overview
After carefully reviewing the information provided by CareerLeader and StrengthsFinder, it has come to my attention that a few of my strengths strongly correlate with my top interests. For example, my strength of Individualization evidently links with my interest in influencing others. I would like to utilize this memo to further explain my top strengths in relation to my interests provided by StrengthsFinder and CareerLeader, in hopes to further inform my colleagues.

Comparison

Strengths
Competition
Discipline
Analytical 
Significance
Individualization

Key Interests, Motivators, and Skills
Influencing Others
Quantitative Analysis
Teamwork
Ability to Teach
Financial Gain

Regarding my top CareerLeader interests, motivators, skills and my StrengthsFinder results, I have discovered that there are many similarities. For instance, my strength of being analytical goes hand in hand with quantitative analysis. I enjoy using mathematical analysis to solve problems using data, patterns, and connections. I also observed the similarities in my strength of individualization and my ability to teach others. By individualizing my peers, I manage to easily build strong relationships with others and locate their assets for their own self-building. This strategy is beneficial when teaching others, I can maximize their output by locating their strengths and using it to their advantage.  However, I did notice the possible negative relationship between competition and teamwork. I am extremely competitive; therefore, I constantly need to one-up my peers in every situation, which could harden my ability to work well in a team setting. 

My top career matches were: Management Consulting, Private Equity Investment, and Investment Management. There were obvious similarities between my analytical strength and all three of my career matches. By providing consulting services, I must be able to solve problems using data, along with analyzing numbers for investing jobs. I have also found a strong correlation between my competitive, discipline strengths and my top career matches from CareerLeader. In order to succeed in Management Consulting or investment jobs, one must be self-disciplined and driven, which falls into my competitive nature. I am always pushing myself to do better than the day before, or the task before. 

For the majority of results shown, my strengths, skills, motivators, and career matches appear to complement each other well. The only contradiction being the relationship between my competitive strength and teamwork skill. I tend to compete against members on my own team, therefore struggling with the ability to work well in a group. Other than this plausible flaw, I have found the two assessments to be extremely useful for current planning, future job interviews, and cover letters and résumés. 

Summary
Overall, taking the two assessments provided by CareerLeader and StrengthsFinder has broadened my understanding of my positive characteristics, how I am motivated, and my interactions with others. I have been reassured that I am on the right path to attaining a fulfilling career by continuing my current education of a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Economics. Once I graduate from college, I will further my career with a job that involves detailed analysis and the possibility of great financial gain, as stated within my CareerLeader assessment.
