Discussion
An experiment dealing with comparisons of VC with other parameters was performed by Principles of Biology students from a local university. VC showed a significant, positive correlations with height, meaning VC and height had a direct relationship with each other. The hypothesis that VC correlated with other parameters was therefore supported. A plausible reason for positive correlation between height and VC could have been that the taller a person is the larger his/her lungs will be, therefore having higher VC. “This clear relationship between standing height and VC has been taken as scientific fact” since John Hutchinson’s study of VC, standing height, and age. Johnson is starting from Hutchinson’s study that the data between the two factors, VC and standing height, only gave approximate readings not precise ones. The study done on VC and height at the local university could be considered approximate and precise. Hutchinson most likely did not have the right tools to have a precise reading because his study was practiced in 1844. The similarities between the two studies are that there is a direct relationship between height and VC and could almost be considered a scientific fact (Johnston, 2014).

Chest circumference of all the students was then evaluated in relation to VC. The data resulted in a positive correlation, that is, there was a direct relationship between VC and chest circumference. The hypothesis that VC correlation with other parameters was therefore, supported. A plausible reason for this outcome could have been that the larger chest circumference, the more room there will be for inhalation and exhalation, resulting in higher VC. In 1918, the study between VC and chest circumference was being performed by two men, Lundsgaard and Van Slyke (1918), resulting in a definite correlation between chest circumference [volume] and not just VC but, the total capacity, mid capacity and residual air. The differences could root from Lundsgaard and Van Slyke having calculated measurements of the chest in three different places while resting, whereas the local university’s study has chest measurements in one set place while standing (Hurtado and Fray 1933).

The heart beats per minute for each student was calculated and then analyzed with VC. The data resulted in no correlation, meaning VC and heart beats per minute did not have a direct relationship with each other. The hypothesis that VC correlated with other parameters was supported by the comparison. A plausible reason might have been that the lungs are part of the respiratory system and the heart is part of the circulatory system. Therefore, in this particular study they do not affect each other directly. A study was done in 2008 between a sample of males and females, active and not, relating FVC (forced vital capacity) and heartbeats per minute after jumping. There was a correlation between VC and heartbeats per minute in this particular study. This study’s results and the local university’s study results may differ because the difference between forced and not forced VC. Also the heartbeats per minute were calculated for the local university study standing and sitting, but after jumping for the published work (Fuster et al., 2008). A study on exercising and lung health involves VC and heart rate. Exercising cannot change measurements of total lung capacity, which is the volume of air in the lungs after taking the largest breath possible (TLC), forced VC, and the amount of air able to be blown out after taking the largest breath possible (FVC). The studies relating TLC and FVC had no direct relationship when compared with exercising habits. Exercising and heart rate are related factors, which can be supporting information as to why VC and heart beats per minute had no correlation in the study done at the local university (Barns, 2017).

Lifestyle has a large impact on a person's VC. For example, smoking habits affect VC. In a study by Borken et al. (1981) it was shown that VC is negatively impacted by smoking; Exercise habits with also impacted VC. It has been shown that there is a direct relationship between athletes and high VC. Eating and dieting habits can even be a factor in a person’s VC as well. Living a healthier lifestyle can quite possibly lead to a larger VC (Borken et al., 1981).

It has been established that there is a positive correlation between VC and height as well as VC and chest circumference. It can be said that VC and those factors directly relate to each other. On the other hand, VC and heart beats per minute to not directly relate to each other due the outcome of no correlation. Lifestyle and other factors come into consideration when dealing with VC. VC and heartbeats per minute should be studied and evaluated in more than one experiment. For future studies, chest circumference could be expanded upon and more measurements could be taken to narrow down the data results. Further studies on VC could help with accurate determination of correlations of other parameters with VC.
