The Wolf Inside me 



     I feel I am a wolf spiritually because they are loners, travel in packs and they are nocturnal.

  In the essay “A Note to Mascot” the author talks about why humans like to personify animals

 because we to connect to them on a spiritually level. When come to animal’s mascots animals 

like lion’s wolf or bears and various other animals we always try to personify them because want 

to connect to them on a spiritually like the author explained. So, in the essay I will talk about the 

animal I see that personal I see that fit me spiritually and those reasoning behind that and why I

 choose that specific type of animals. My first reason why I had a connection with a wolf

 because of the ideal of the lone wolf





	The reason why I felt like a lone wolf is when I first stated college. I didn’t 

know anybody on campus until like maybe the first two weeks. It was also the first time where I 

was far away from my family and I was also on my own for the first time, so I was alone at first. 

What I did to past the time and the awkwardness was to just walk around campus with my 

headphones for most of the time unless I was in my room or when I ate or when I had to go to

 class. So, I just stuck by myself like a lone wolf I only had myself to look out for like a lone 

wolf I was cool with it for a while but that change wolf all the until I meet my group of friends 

which turn me to a lone wolf to a wolf that had a pack.



This is another reason I compare myself to a wolf because they travel in a pack that how I

felt when I first meet the group of friends that I have now we always travel together a

least there was 15 of us always together and when we eat and walk around on campus or 

being in the library lobby and getting kicked by 40-40 then going either MLK or The 

Student Center and just chilling there all night until there was enough of people that was

tired we all left and get ready for class that day. So,6 this change my view point as wolf from 

going to a lone wolf to one with a pack that look out for each other. We had some late night 

which leads me to me last point about why I relate to a wolf.





    They are nocturnal creatures it is the most surprising thing that I had in common with a 

wolf because when I was in high I didn’t stay up past 12 am and that schedule I had on 

planning on keep. When in was I started in college I was doing exactly that sleep at 11:30 pm

 then waking up to go to breakfast and not really stay.  But once when I started hanging out with 

my friends. I began to hang out more and more later first it stated at 12:30 A.M. then to 2:00 

A.M. and now finally I stay up till 4 A.M and the thought of me going to breakfast or waking up 

early doesn’t crossed my mind anymore. It crazy how the more with my group of friends and I

 prefer the night time now ever since I started going to college at my university. 





           So, in conclusion the wolf was the animal I connect spiritually through a certain 

incident and that was college. I start as a lone wolf turned to a wolf that has a 

packed and I became more nocturnal since I meet my friends.  I agree on what the 

author said in his essay a note to mascot which he states that why how humans 

tried to connect to animals on spiritually level Which I can say I have experienced 

with me connect to the ideals of a wolf. And that is the reasoning when you see so 

many animal’s mascots that doesn’t live or would be seen in most places in that 

united states unless it a small animal like a badge or hornets not the loins or tigers 

those type of animals. That we see on almost every sports team.

