Papa is a complex character 


In the novel Purple Hibiscus Eugene also known as Papa the father of Kambila the main character. To most people outside of his family he is a wealthy business owner and devoted Catholic. But to his family he is a abusive father and husband who except a certain level of expectation from his wife and kids and if doesn't please him if hurt them physically but there are points in the novel where he show some type of affection to his wife and kids. So what are the main points that keep recurring with Papa as a character. He show physical religious abuse to his family and at rare points he show love towards them.

Papa show a lot of abuse towards his family in this moment ”He lowered the kettle into the tub, tilted it toward my feet. He poured the hot water on my feet, slowly, as if he were conducting an experiment and wanted to see what would happen”  that was the daughter kambila talking about the time where papa pulled hot water her feet as a punishment for something she did. That doesn't compare to to the moment where nearly beat his own daughter to death. He even as go as caused two miscarriages with his wife and they family are afraid of him the family  act like that incident  never occurred. Which paint entirely different picture from we see when he is out in public with his family.

Physical abuse is not only abuse he show throughout the novel he show religious abuse to his own family. Papa switch up his accent when he is around the priest when he goes to church so he please them. Even goes as after to shun his own father from his life and the rest of the family life because his father because he doesn't follow the catholic religion. Even after  his father all he said was “ He does not cry, but asks her if she called a priest and offers to pay for a Catholic funeral. Ifeoma refuses angrily.” He try to force his religion on his family and if they disobey anything the revolved around the catholic religion he abuse them. 

Out of all the countless time he abused his family there are rare moments where he actually show his family affection. After he finished dropping his wife from the hospital after he caused another miscarriage he went up and hug kambili. When he was preparing to poured boiling water on kambili he was crying while doing so we can see there is some type of emotion he has for his kids even most of the time he abuse them and belittled them. But this side of papa doesn't show when he is out in public or when in the church.

As we analyzed the character papa in the novel purple hibiscus we see him as a two-faced complex person throughout the story. As he abuse his wife and kids and show some type of resentment towards the family members who are not into the catholic religion he treated them as they were savages. Even show no emotion towards his own father death and just ask whether they was going to his a catholic funeral or a the type of funeral that his father believe in. his sister replied back no he got angry and just left. But he can break down and cry to his daughter right before he physically hurt with boiling water.