The Power of Language through Rhetorical Strategies
	Sometimes when reading you don’t expect to read a story that you can relate to and actually visualize what is going on however, for many Maya Angelou’s book “Letter to my daughter” allows the reader to feel as if they are in the story as well. Angelou touches on her personal life and some different experiences she had that gave her many life lessons in return. Angelou looks back at her life to share the moments that made her the person she is now, she allows the audience to feel as if they are there by the use of different rhetorical strategies. The reason Angelou decided to use rhetorical strategies in her writing was because it was a method to engage her readers and make them think about the life they are living. The use of the rhetorical strategies she used engages her readers by allowing them to picture the story, Angelou’s goal was to get her message across to her audience which she accomplished by the strategies she used. She went through experiences such as how she was raised by her grandmother in Arkansas, taken in at thirteen by her less religious mother, and grew to be a six-foot-tall teenager whose first sex experience would lead to a child that is her greatest blessing to ever happen to her. (Para. 1-66) Overall the rhetorical strategies helped her make sure that her audience would be fully engaged throughout the entire story and learn to always look back on their life experiences. 
In “Letter to my daughter” Angelou uses the point of view as a strategy to make sure the audience pictures the scenario, the article “The composite first person narrative: Texture, structure, and meaning in writing phenomenological descriptions” explains why authors use this in their writing. Authors use first-person point of view as a rhetorical strategy, this helps the audience relate in a personal level to the topics being discussed as well as make sure the readers see it more clearly. (Stanley Wertz, Para. 7) Angelou does this in her book, she is using first-person point of view which helps connect the reader to the character in the story because it feels as if you are there as well. The author uses words such as “I” to make the reader feel as if they are actually speaking to the character in the story, “When I was thirteen, my grandmother took me back to California to join my mother, and she returned immediately to Arkansas.” (Para. 20) This quote is an example of how the audience can possibly relate in a personal level to the story because people can have also moved different places in their lifetime establishing a quick connection from the beginning of the story. 
The reason why the author decided to pick first person instead of second or third is because as a strategy Angelou knew that picking first would only work to her advantage. If she would have decided to go with second person then the audience would not feel as if they knew the character or if she decided to pick third person then there would just be a story being told but the reader would not see how the character in the story was feeling at the time. The first-person point of view works perfectly with her goal which is to make the audience connect and feel what she is saying in her different stories. First person allows her to tell the story in her perspective which helps the audience visualize the scenario, by getting the audience’s full attention it also works toward the goal of making sure the message is delivered. 
One of Angelou’s main goals was to get her message across to her audience which was for the daughter she never had, Angelou wants her readers to know that everyone comes from different backgrounds and experiences however we all learn from them which makes us the person who we are today and as humans we keep growing as life goes on. In the book “Letter to My Daughter” she uses the rhetorical strategy ethos. Angelou gets into her personal life and as a reader she makes herself credible and makes sure that the readers don’t even question if her personal experiences are real. In “Letter to My Daughter” there are many personal experiences told by Angelou such as the one where she is insecure of how her body looks but has sex for the first time and ends up pregnant. This is ethos because as you can see the author gets very personal which creates a character that seems credible. The article “The Roots of Research in (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos. Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications” by Ülkü D. Demirdogen, explains how someone can build credibility in a story by the way a story is developed enough for a character to connect to the audience to the point where they feel like they know who they are. (192)
There are many ways to build credibility in a story, some authors may be able to establish their credibility right from the start and some may need to develop their characters as the story progresses. Angelou is telling a story from the start of the story, she introduces her character and tells us some of her background helping the audience know the type of person she was and is. Slowly through the different experiences she talks about such as her mother not being as great of a role model has her grandmother was or how when she decided to go to a boy’s house without knowing what to expect. Angelou explains this exact scenario in the following way “A friend had lent him his apartment. From the moment I saw him at the door I knew I had made the wrong choice.”(Para. 39) Through these different experiences the audience gets to see that these are true life experiences and things that happened in her life, although she never proves any of these statements she does not need to. The reason why she does not need to prove what she is saying is real is because she proves it by talking about things that an author usually does not talk about. The story about her first time having sex is very personal however she decides to tell her audience about it because it makes the readers think if she is telling us very personal things that happened in her life everything else must be true as well. 
Building up credibility is very important for an author, building the personal connection between the character in the story and the reader in “Letter to my daughter” leads to the author using the rhetorical strategy pathos. `Angelou uses pathos as in the article “The roots of Research in (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications” states “Aristotle’s appeals to pathos were psychological appeals; they relied on the receiver’s emotions.” (192) The author uses rhetorical strategy pathos when she makes the audience feel the emotions she was going through when she was letting her mother know about her pregnancy or make the readers feel the emotion of a human when a child is being born. (Para. 68) This makes a connection between the audience and the character making the reader more engaged in the story, this strategy was implemented to help the audience understand what Angelou is feeling at the very moment of the experience. Making the audience feel any type of emotion by reading something is very effective and she uses pathos to make sure that her readers feel that sense of happiness when Angelou is explaining how her son is a blessing that happened as an accident but she does not regret it.
As you can see “Letter to My Daughter” creates a credible story by developing a character enough to the point to where the audience knows it is real, causes different emotions for the audience, and the author does this by establishing a tone. The tone throughout the story is consistently at a calming understanding tone because in the story Angelou is storytelling about different experiences, which makes the readers feel as if they are there just listening to her talking in person. An example of something Angelou says is “My brother Bailey told me to keep my pregnancy a secret from my mother. He said she would take me out of school.” (Para. 44) This is an example of something she says that is understanding and the audience understands why she was scared of letting her mom know because she combines different rhetorical strategies with tone to allow the audience to feel connected to the reader as if she was talking to only you, the tone she uses makes this happen. 
The tone throughout the story makes you feel as if you are both just sitting down reflecting on each other’s past experiences. Her tone does not really change throughout the story because she is explaining her emotions that she felt when she was going through those different experiences. For example, she explains how nervous and frightened were words that were not enough to describe how she was feeling (Para. 55) in this part of the book she is telling you a story in the same understanding tone however the words she uses to describe the scenario are the ones that make you feel something. The tone is always the same, you feel as if someone is reading a story to you and you are there listening to them, this builds a connection to the audience which helps them think more about the message behind the story more. 
Therefore, the use of rhetorical strategies helped her get her life lessons and experiences out to her audience so they understand it, the power of language is clear in this story how it can impact a reader. Angelou does a good job at making sure to make the audience feel emotion to her experiences as well as reflect on one’s own life to remember those life lessons. The reason she does this is to make her message clear which is to be proud and glad you went through good and bad experiences because they shaped you to be the person who you are today. The author has the power of language in this book because it makes the audience feel something by the use of Angelou’s words. Reading Angelou’s “Letter to My Daughter” is beneficial to the reader because they get to remind themselves of the experiences that taught them lessons in their own lives. 
Angelou’s story shows how the use of words in a book can have an impact on the lives of those who read and understand the message. A story such as “Letter to My Daughter” will make you feel as if you were Angelou growing up as an African-American, the impact the experiences had on her affect the audience as well because of the way she tells her stories. As you can see this is how powerful language truly is, it can impact someone’s life for the better. For example, someone can read this story and think to themselves that they should be thankful for the bad and good experiences because they learned so much from them as a person. Angelou uses reflection in her book as well by causing the readers to rethink of their own experiences and this can possibly change their outlook on their daily lives. Angelou has the ability to have an impact on her readers through the use of her words which is awesome considering she is able to impact her audience in a positive way making them want to keep reading this multiple times. 
All in All, the use of rhetorical strategies in the book “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou, allowed her to connect the audience with her own life. The way she explains her different experiences to her audience allows the readers to feel as if they have known who she is for a while. These different experiences help Angelou get her point to her audience which is that you are always growing as a person and there are those experiences that are meant to be that can go from an accident to a blessing in your life. If it were not for developing the characters credibility, developing the audience’s emotion, or establishing a calm understanding tone then the audience’s attention may have had shift quickly. Overall, Angelou established a connection to her audience as well as delivered her message clearly to her audience by the use of rhetorical strategies. 





Work Cited
Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter. Random House, 2008. Print
Demirdogen, Ulku D. “The Roots of Research in (political) Persuasion: Ethos, Pathos, Logos and the Yale Studies of Persuasive Communications” International Journal Of Social Inquiry, vol. 3, no. 1, 2010, http://www.acarindex.com/dosyalar/makale/acarindex-1423904068.pdf. Accessed 17 September 2017.
Stanley Wertz, Marcia, Nosek Marcianna, McNiesh Susan, Marlow Elizabeth. “The composite first person narrative: Texture, structure, and meaning in writing phenomenological descriptions” International Journal Of qualitive Studies in Health, 2011, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.3402/qhw.v6i2.5882. Accessed 14 September 2017.
