Domestic Violence and Abuse in South Africa 

	How does the author use Papa Eugene’s abusive and violent behavior to show a complex relationship between him and his family? In Purple Hibiscus abuse to Papa is very typical when it comes to his family. His relationship with his family prior to all the violence is the main reason why the relationship is so complex. The common complexity in this relationship involves emotions and reactions that can be triggered mentally and physically. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Purple Hibiscus analyzes the complex relationship Eugene had towards his family by acts of brutality, acts of love and acts of religion. 
	Brutality is physical violence towards an individual. In Purple hibiscus Eugene is very brutal to his wife and kids. Eugene was very careless on how he abused his wife in particular. Mama was a heathy pregnant woman who just wanted to have another child but Papa didn’t really care. For instance, “Mama was slung over his shoulder like the jute sacks of rice his factory workers bought in bulk at the Seme Border. He opens the dining room door. Then we heard the front door open, heard him say something to the gate man, Adamu. “There’s blood on the floor,” Jaja said” (Chapter 2, Page 33). At this very moment readers seen the complexity of Papa and Mama relationship because Papa Abuses Mama very badly but still they are in a marriage. He physically abused her to where she bleeds and she loss another child. 
	Love is an intense felling and deep affection you have for others physically and mentally. In Purple Hibiscus Papa shows his love towards his kids Kambili and Jaja in a unique way. For instance, “I waited for him to ask Jaja and me to take a sip, as he always did. A love sip, he called it, because you shared the little things you loved with the people you loved. Have a love sip, he would say, and Jaja would go first. Then I would hold the cup with both hands and raise it to my lips. One sip. The tea was always too hot, always burned my tongue, and if lunch was something peppery, my raw tongue suffered. But it didn’t matter, because I knew that when the tea burned my tongue, it burned Papa’s love into me” (Chapter 1, Page 8). This also shows how Papa, Kambili and Jaja relationship is so complex. He abuses them and yell at them all the time but still shows his love towards them by giving them a love sip.
	Religion is the beliefs and worship of personal God or gods. In Purple Hibiscus religion is very significant to Papa. If it’s significant to him, it definitely has to be significant to his other family members in his household as well. Papa was raised by missionaries, everything he did came from the bible that’s why he is himself now. For instance, he followed guidelines like “All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen” (Ralph Waldo Emerson). He follows his religion rule. 
	In conclusion all of Papa relationships are complex. He shows his love through unique ways. He shows hate through love as well. Everything he do is through religion because the way he was raised. He loves his family but he thinks he has to discipline them sometimes. All of the relationships are love and hate and are very complex.
