To be Tamed or not to be Tamed
	Women since the beginning of time have been held at a higher standard of behavior. Women are to remain pure till marriage and must be faithful to their husband. Wantonness and infidelity are traits that can condemn women. But such traits are not condemning for men. Men can seek carnal pleasures without much repercussion. One example of these double standards is Sir Thomas Wyatt’s poem “They Flee from Me.” This poem is a “anti-woman” themed poem because the speaker believes he is the best possible suitor for women. He believes he alone has the gentleness that the women need. However, he also believes he is taming the women by having sex with them. The speaker also repeatedly degrades the women who left him after his true nature was revealed.
	The speaker is a man who believes that he is the perfect suitor for any woman. For the speaker has “gentleness” (16) and acts “kindly” (20) to them. However, after the women leave him, he believes they have left all their “goodness” (18) with him and have embraced “newfangleness” (19). The goodness he believes is gone is the women’s respectability and purity. For the speaker believes that once a woman has lain with a man she is no longer pure. The pureness has been replaced with fickleness and a need to seek “continual change” (7). This scenario is ironic because the speaker is an active participate in the women losing their purity. Thus, revealing the truth behind the speaker. For the speaker’s true personality is angry, belittling and unkind. The speaker further damages the reader’s idea of him when he hopes she gets what “she hath deserved” (21). This display of anger towards women proves he himself lacks respect toward women who leave him.
	One of the other ways the speaker proves he is not a respectable suitor is by how he degrades women. The poem begins with the speaker saying the women sought him with their “naked foot stalking in my chamber” (2). The speaker believes that women chase after him and his affections. Because his affections cannot be matched by anyone else. The speaker enjoys the “pleasant guise” or chase (10). Women are also like wild and unknowing animals because they come to him and “take bread at [his] hand” (6). The wild animals he compares them too are innocent and weak prey to him. Thus, the speaker goes after women whom he sees as “gentle… and meek” (3). The speaker’s degradation of women plays into his fake ideals. He believes he is saving them from putting themselves “in danger” (5). The danger he sees is them finding a true, respectable suitor. But the real danger is him, hunting them.
	The last flaw in the speaker’s personality is his belief that he can tame women. Taming a woman is getting her to come to him and having sex. The speaker describes the woman’s dress falling off her shoulder and how he is “caught in her arms long and small” (12). This description of them leading up to having sex takes an entire stanza. The time spent on this one action shows the amount of significance the action is to the speaker. However, the speaker isn’t in love with the woman, he is simply taming her. The “taming” of the women to him is just another kill for the hunter. After they have sex, the women move on to another suitor because they see his deception. The speaker believes they leave him because that have been overcome by wantonness. It is impossible for him to see his true nature as a man who is not gentle but a deceiver.
	Sir Thomas Wyatt’s poem is only twenty-one lines long. But “They Flee from Me” asserts the era’s common ideals of women and how men perceive them. The poem is a “anti-woman” poem because after the women have sex, they seek other suitors. The speaker believes they seek others because they have tasted carnal pleasures and want more. But the women only seek to leave the speaker. The speaker is a man who sees himself as the best possible suitor; however, he is not. After he has tamed the women he loses his respect for them. As they have given up their purity in his eyes. The speaker then goes on to degrade the women, of which he has tamed, by comparing them to wild animals that only he would be able to protect from danger. But the speaker’s beliefs are ironic. The irony is that the speaker is the one who took the women’s purity willingly and then chooses to react bitterly and in anger afterwards. The “anti-women” theme is set in stone when the speaker hopes the women get what they deserve.
