Small Businesses & Advertisement
	Wherever we go we see an advertisement, it tries to influence you to do something and most of the time it is to purchase something. Advertisements have been known to be used to get the word out to the public however no one really sees it in another perspective, which is the public is not affected by the advertising they see. The bigger businesses have established themselves and then there are those smaller businesses that want to be well known by the public but for the quality they provide. These smaller businesses which are usually local ones can make a name for themselves without advertisement by providing customers an experience that will make them come back and make them talk to spread the word. The use of advertisement is not needed for a small business to become successful yet some still believe that without it a business will not succeed but that is not the case.
	Small businesses are being more unique by creating new services and products that are not common, there is no need for an advertisement because customers know how good of a place it is. The article “The impact of Television Advertising: Learning without involvement” by Dorothea Bradithwaite, explains how T.V ads are not convincing anymore because of how unrealistic they are that people do not pay attention them when shown. Also “Back in 1959 Herber Zielske, in “The remembering and Forgetting of Advertising,” demonstrated that advertising will be quickly forgotten if not continuously exposed. Why such need for constant reinforcement? Why so easy-in and easy-out of short-term memory? One answer is that much of advertising content is learned as meaning less nonsense material.” (P.4) Advertisement is not affecting consumers as much as people think it does, if no one is paying attention to them a small business does not need them but can make a name for themselves by providing a good service.
	If advertisements are not having any effect on the consumer a small business should not invest money on it to not gain anything in return. The article “Advertising as Capitalist Realism” by Michael Schudson, explains how ads try to incorporate realistic situations and make a scenario that the audience can relate to. “The makers of commercials do not want what is real but, what will seem real on film.” (P.4) Advertisements are not real and ad makers try so hard to make them seem as if they are and people are not buying into them. Schudson also explains how people are purchasing goods that they know are good quality no matter what they see on advertisements because they know that they will not be disappointed. A small business is capable of creating a reputation like this, people will know that they are the best of the best and will prefer to go there than even a well-known brand because of how good that service or product is. Bigger businesses are using ads but that is not affecting their sales as much as they think because people are now buying products when they see them in person instead of buying it based on an ad. Small businesses can cause people to talk about them if they establish themselves as a good business that everyone should check out, there have been many businesses that are successful and grow that never uses advertising. These businesses are successful because they brought something unique to the table and people liked them therefore more people heard about them through word of mouth.
	Although I believe that a small business can be successful without advertisement there are those who think this is crucial in becoming a success especially as a small business.  The article “The Economic Effects of Advertisement” by Dorothea Braithwaite, claims that advertising increase demand therefore sales go up as well. The main reason why people think advertisement is very important is because they reach a bigger audience by being publicized, however a small business should not invest in it if people are not paying attention to ads anymore. Braithwaite says that ads “aims at increasing sales by affecting the mind of the consumer.” (P.4) Advertising is a way to play mind games with the consumer by telling them they’ll look as good as the actors on television and then it does not look the same when you see it in person. Most consumers will not buy something until they see how it fits, small businesses can do ads but the problem is that advertisements are not taken seriously anymore and people will still want to see it in person therefore they should not invest their time and money on advertising. 
	Consumers are buying the products because they go to the store and see it for themselves however some advertisers think that it’s the advertisement driving people to go buy them which is not the case. People have now realized that they are just being manipulated to go buy something because the ad said it was great or since a famous athlete said so, but people do not care what they see anymore and buy based on what they like in person. A small business can be successful because if it is really good people will keep coming back and then bringing their friends and suddenly it generates a lot of sales. Businesses don’t necessarily need ads to become successful, there are many ads on social media that are not taken seriously and no one even takes a second to read, but if you know a small business is good then you know that they will not disappoint if you decide to go. For example, if you want ice cream and instead of going to a expensive ice cream shop you go to one owned by a small business that is less expensive you not only save money but get the same quality. Many items are similar and one is priced higher than the other because of the brand they have created but a small business does not need a brand for people to know that they are good but make sure they leave a satisfying experience on the customer.
	Furthermore, it is possible for a small owned business to become successful without the use of advertisements, it is not impossible therefore small businesses can save some money by not doing so much ads. The key is to establish themselves as a good business by leaving a good first impression that will keep people talking and wanting to come back, this creates a reputation about how good they are and more people will check them out. After doing some research if ads actually increase sales, study showed that it is not the ad that drives the consumers to buy it but they buy it once they are at the store, making the ad useless. Small business cannot afford to invest their money on ads and if they are able to become successful without using them then they definitely should. The businesses that are huge right now that are at the point that do not need ads are successful because they used ads however they could have become big by saving money and there was never a need for ads if their product/service was that good. 










Work Cited

Braithwaite, Dorothea. “The Economic Effects of Advertisement.” The Economic Journal, vol. 38, no. 149, 1928, pp. 16–37. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/2224394.

Krugman, Herbert E. “The Impact of Television Advertising: Learning Without Involvement.” The Public Opinion Quarterly, vol. 29, no. 3, 1965, pp. 349–356. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/2746936.

Schudson, Michael. “Advertising, The Uneasy Persuasion (RLE Advertising).” Google Books, books.google.com
