Introduction

Many authors have conversed how vital capacity (VC) in spirometry studies could be influenced by stature, age, gender, health status, and lifestyle. Spirometry can be defined as the process of measuring volumes of air that move into and out of the respiratory system. VC can be defined as the sum of the inspiratory reserve volume added to the tidal volume, which is the amount of air remaining in the lungs at the end of a normal expiration (Seeley et al., 2008). The instrument for measuring VC, a spirometer, was invented by John Hutchinson in the early to mid 1800s (Petty, 2002). Hutchinson examined 2,130 individuals and showed that VC is impacted by pulmonary directed (Hutchinson, 1846). VC was found to be increased in individuals who are more physically active, in adult males, and also persons who are tall, thin, and/or athletic (Seeley et al., 2008). Other factors that could affect VC are chest circumference and smoking. For example, in a study by Borken et al. (1981) it was shown that VC is negatively impacted by smoking, where as it increases with increased chest circumference. The applications of spirometry plays an important factor in diagnosing respiratory diseases, such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). A study done on DMD used spirometry by finding the maximal VC recorded and the rate of decline which predicted survival time. Spirometry also provided relatively powerful way of determining disease progression in DMD patients (Phillips et al., 2001). Spirometry was used in a study performed by NHANES to find patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Using pre-bronchodilator and post-bronchodilator spirometry measurements, NHANES found conclusions such as the effect of air flow from post to pre bronchodilator (Tilert et al., 2013). 


The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationships between VC and other aspects such as height, chest circumference, athleticness, smoking habits, and gender. The objective of this study was to collect spirometry data from college students, which would be pursued for factors affecting VC. The tested hypothesis is that VC correlated with the other factors including stature, heartbeats per minute, age, lifestyle, and gender.
