Negatives

	Geoffrey Chaucer created “The Wife of Bath’s Prolouge and Tale” represent a woman outside of her era. The Wife of Bath is a crude and intelligent woman. While these qualities do not complement each other, Chaucer uses them as a distraction to his proto-feminist “The Wife of Bath.” Alyson, the Wife of Bath, is a proto-feminist woman who knows her place. As a wife she is meant to be faithful and take care of the household; however, she opposes these views. The Wife of Bath uses society’s negative views against women, she uses her education against opposition, and she uses her feminist views to teach the men a lesson with her tale. Chaucer uses this combination of her character, intellect, and appearance to push feminism.
	The Wife of Bath is a woman who takes society’s negative views of women and exaggerates them. Alyson chooses to exaggerate the ideas that women only seek carnal pleasures and are manipulating creatures. Alyson succeeds in manipulating her husbands by not allowing them to seek carnal pleasures with her. This gives her power “upon his propre body, and nat he” (line 165). The Wife of Bath believes that the only way a marriage can be happy is for the woman to have control. Alyson easily asserts her control on her husbands. The first four husbands are much older than Alyson and are taken by her beauty. But her fifth marriage requires a different type of manipulation. Jankin, the fifth husband, is a young man who is well educated. His education has led him to strongly believe in society’s negative views of women. Alyson must change tactics to gain control. After Jankin hits Alyson, she pretends to be dead. This leads Jankin to giving Alyson “governance of hous and land, and of his tonge and his hand” (820-821). Thus, allowing Alyson to have control over her household and husband. Alyson knowingly manipulates her husbands to her feminist views. 
	While Alyson fights against and with stereotypes, she uses her education to prove that society’s views are unfounded. Her use of knowledge to prove her beliefs is feminist because women were not educated. Women lack of education put them below their husbands. However, Alyson proves she is educated by using the bible as the main source of her proof against society. When Alyson is shamed for having been married a total of five times, she turns to God’s commands. Alyson points out that God “bad us for to wexe and multiplye” (28). To further her point, she also points out that King Solomon “hadde wives many oon” (36). The belief in virginity before marriage is also an argument used against Alyson. To counter her entering marriages without being a virgin, Alyson points out that Paul “dorste nat comanden at the leeste A thing of which his maister yaf no heeste” (79-80). If God himself had commanded that virginity was required to wed, remarriages would not be supported. The counter arguments made using the bible was blasphemy for The Wife of Bath’s era. Thus, Alyson’s faith and interpretations of the biblical teachings were ahead of her time. 
	The Wife of Bath’s Tale uses King Arthur legends and feminism too teach men a lesson. Alyson starts her tale by having a young knight of the court rape a beautiful maiden. As punishment for his crimes he must find out what women desire most. The knight goes through the land asking women what they most desire. The responses are varying and are mostly possessional. The knight then approaches an old hag who offers to answer his question correctly in exchange for him pledging himself to her. The hag answers the question correctly and the knight’s life is spared. In their marriage bed, the hag allows him to pick if she is old and faithful or young and adventurous. The knight gives her the choice to pick instead of him. The old hag then turns into a beautiful and faithful young woman. Alyson chose this tale because the correct answer to what all women desire is control in their life and marriage. In her prologue, Alyson states she “governed  [her husbands] so wel” because she wanted control in her marriage (225). Female control of the household and her husband was not common in Alyson’s time. Society was extremely patrilineal during this time. Alyson’s feminist view would have went against everything men had been taught, as her views are more matrilineal and feminist. 
	Geoffrey Chaucer understood the role women played in society and fought against it. His character, The Wife of Bath, is a proto-feminist. She believed in women having control, education, and breaking out of the box society created. For women to be happy in their life, Alyson explains that women need control over their husband and household. Jankin abused Alyson until she took control over him, stopping the abuse. Her last marriage would have been unhappy if she hadn’t. Education is simply a tool Alyson uses to push and back her feminist views. Any condemnation a man throws at her she challenges. When the men on the pilgrimage grow tired of her crudeness, she simply tells a tale with all the same feminist views and elements in her prologue. Chaucer purposely wrote Alyson to be a contrast for the anti-feminist men. It is this contrast that makes Alyson being a tool to push feminism clear.
