


“Anytown’s Sam Doe just fouled out with Anytown up by 1 and 4.2 seconds left to play. This is going to be a huge test for the rest of the Yellow Jackets.” These words spoken by the commentator in my last ever high school basketball game were some of the most heartbreaking that I had heard in all my years as an athlete. For as long as I could remember, I was the star player on my basketball team. I was the “go to” person in crunch time, I would guard the best player on the opposing team, I was the captain and the leader. I always carried the weight of the team from the time that I was in the 9th grade but on this particular night, I had failed. One of the most important games that I have ever played in and I didn’t pull through.

This game, this sub regional game, was one that we had been preparing for all season. We knew that we would be matched up with either Anyville or Springfield depending on who won their area because of the way that our areas and regions were matched up. We had scouted every single player, watched a ton of game film and were preparing to beat either of them. We had beat Springfield twice during the regular season so we were not worried about having to play them again. In fact, we were rooting for them to lose so that we could play them again because we matched up with them so well. We had also scouted and prepared for Anyville. However, something that we could not prepare for was their star player, a nationally ranked university commit Casey Smith. A shooting guard standing about an inch under 6 feet tall, Casey was a freak of nature. She averaged about 24 points per game, shooting 40% from the 3-point line and was extremely long causing havoc defensively. She was good, she knew it and so did we but we weren’t going to lay down.

My coach came to me the week before that game and said to me, “You are going to guard Casey, she’s not going to score more than 20 points and you are going to lead us to the regional tournament. This is not up for debate or a time for you to be afraid. I would not give you the task if I didn’t believe that you could do it.” I agreed to try my best to fulfill her wishes and she assured me that all that she wanted from me was the effort. Going into the game, our plan was to do what we always did and guard her like we would guard anyone else. Our coach explained to us that she was an amazing player and she was going to score, we couldn’t stop that but we could not allow her teammates to contribute a whole lot along with her if we had any chance at beating them. We understood the challenge that we had to face and we were ready to do it. The entire week leading up to that sub regional game was the best week of practice that we had ever had. The entire team was locked in, focused, ready to learn and did all that they were asked to do in practice that week. Before we knew it, it was game day and the time had come for us to show what we could do.

It was a constant battle the entire game, back and forth. We had held Casey to about 15 points entering the 4th quarter which was exactly what we needed to do but the battle continued. We would go up by 3 then they would go up by 2, just back and forth. We battled all 4 quarters, giving it everything that we had until there were only 5 seconds left and we were up by 1. All that we had to do to make it to the regional finals was to keep them from scoring in those 5 seconds. Both us and Anyville were in the bonus, so we had to be very careful not to foul them. They had the ball getting ready to inbound it and we were all set up in formation to stop them. 4 seconds go by and no one is open so the Anyville in bounder just threw the ball inbounds to keep from getting a turnover and giving us the possession back under our own goal. Instead of playing solid defense like we had discussed for an entire week, I saw Katie going for the ball so I jumped in front of her and knocked the ball out of bounds. I did not touch her and she did not touch me but the next thing I know, I hear a whistle.

“Anytown’s Sam Doe just fouled out with Anytown down by 1 and 4.2 seconds left to play. This is going to be a huge test for the rest of the Yellow Jackets” were the next words that I heard. I could not believe it because I had not touched her and I was certain that I only had 3 fouls before that happened. Everyone in the gym went insane yelling at that referee and questioning his call. I could not do anything but just stand there because I couldn’t believe that this had just happened, I had failed. For as long as I could remember I had been a basketball player but at that moment it all had come to an end, and it was all my fault. While the game was not over yet, I knew that Casey would knock down her free throws, which she did, putting her team up by one with only about 5 seconds left. Us being a team full of sophomores and the starting point guard on the bench, it was very slim that we scored again. Just like that, my basketball season had ended, all because of me. While there were much more important things going on in my life at that time being a senior in high school, that was the first time I could remember that I really experienced real failure.
