Materials and Methods



	During this experiment, vital capacity was measured in liters (L) using a Phipps and Bird 9-Liter Wet Spirometer. It was measured in a group of Principles of Biology students from a local university in laboratory sections L54, L55, L56, and 03C. The sample size for the experiment was 96 students, which included 71 females and 25 males with ages ranging from 17-34 years old. Each subject measured his or her vital capacity in both the supine and the standing position. To do so, each subject inhaled to their maximum capacity, and then forcefully expelled all of their remaining air into the mouthpiece connected to the spirometer. Then, the student recorded their vital capacity as stated on the spirometer dial and reset the spirometer by removing the mouthpiece and zeroing the dial. This was done three times in each position. Lastly, the average vital capacity for each position was determined by adding the three values for that position and dividing the result by three.
	There are many other factors studied that may have affected vital capacity. There were three parameters measured by each subject: chest circumference, height, and resting pulse rate. The chest circumference of each student was measured in centimeters using a tape measure. The height of each student was measured in centimeters using a meter stick. Lastly, resting pulse rate was measured after each subject sat and rested for 10 minutes. The subject palpated for their own pulse by placing their index and middle fingers of one hand on the radial artery of the other arm. The subject then counted the number of beats during a 15 second time interval, which was measured using a MyChron stopwatch. The subject measured his or her 15-second resting pulse rate three separate times and then determined their average pulse rate by adding the three values and dividing by three. The average was multiplied by four to determine the subject’s resting pulse rate during a one-minute time interval. Additionally, each student also recorded his/her age, sex, whether they were a smoker or non-smoker, and whether they were an athlete or non-athlete. Finally, the statistical analysis used to analyze the data for any relationship/correlation between vital capacity and the other parameters stated was a regression analysis.
