Introduction

Numererous authors have examined vital capacity (VC) and the factors that influence it. These factors may include but are not limited to stature, age, gender, health status, and lifestyle. In the Official Journal of the American College of Chest Physicians, VC is defined as “the volume of exhaled air from fully inflated lungs” (Petty, 2002). Many links have been found between individuals’ traits and their VC values. For example, younger individuals typically display increased VC values, as do taller individuals and trained athletes (Seeley et al., 2008). Furthermore, a link has also been discovered between VC and the sex of an individual (Arnett, 1935). Some additional factors studied that may influence VC are chest circumference, resting pulse rate, and whether the subject is a smoker or non-smoker. The spirometer instrument, which measures VC, was invented by John Hutchinson and measures airflow from fully inflated lungs over time in liters (Petty, 2002). Spirometry has numerous useful applications. For example, as stated in a spirometry study on patients with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, “Repeated spirometric measurement provides a simple and relatively powerful means of assessing disease progression in these patients and should be considered when planning treatment trials” (Phillips et al., 2001).

The purpose of this study was to investigate if there is a relationship between VC and other parameters such as height, chest circumference, radial resting pulse rate, etc. This paper will contribute to the existing studies on this topic by reconfirming the fact that VC is in fact affected by these other parameters in a meaningful way. This work specifically addresses spirometry in young adults as the experiment was done on only college students. The overall objective of this study was to collect spirometry data from college students, which would be scrutinized for factors affecting VC. The hypothesis tested was that VC correlated with the other parameters including stature, radial pulse rate, gender, age, and lifestyle.
