Maya Angelou’s Take on Feminism
There have always been women in history who have been very courageous and prideful. These women are everywhere in society from the Super Bowl halftime shows to the corner stores in your local neighborhood. In the excerpt, “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou, Angelou displays acts of independence as a black woman. She talks to her fellow young women who may have or going through the same situation she was in. Angelou also talks to her family and specifically, the daughter she never had. She gives a message to every person but depending on who reads it, they may have different opinions of the meaning. Angelou talks about her mother and how she moved away from her for a while. She describes how difficult it was for her, moving to a different state and living someone who she did not even see as her mother at the time. She gives a conversation on how black women, who were inferior to most races at the time, can use their courage and accomplish anything they set their mind to. Angelou uses imagery to describe New York with the elevators and subways it has as well as Florida with the palm trees and sunny beaches it offers (Angelou 9). Angelou also uses imagery to describe how the world around her is full of racism and she provided the image of her mother helping her deliver her baby. Angelou gave us a description of the reason why she hid her pregnancy from her parents, why she even wanted to see the boy that later got her pregnant, and she also told us how her pregnancy went and how her son was very fearless grandson helped Angelou become proud of herself (Angelou 43-68). Angelou uses pathos throughout her article to help show the reader where she came from and how she overcame all the struggles she endured. She uses imagery to help show the racist environment, her religious, her homes, and her families to the reader so they can easily picture why Angelou became proud of herself in the end. 
Racism has been circling the globe since the late 1800s and Angelou helps us imagine the black people being inferior to the whites. Angelou may be young and not understand the actual problem of the situation, but she still notices that something is wrong. She felt the need to surrender to the white people because all the other black people were doing it, even if she rarely saw the whites (Angelou 4). In the TED Talk spoken by Jamila Lyisctott , Lyisctott mentions how she can speak three different languages. These languages were languages such as an English that she can speak in front her friends, one in front of her family, and one in front of her parents. She used the example of talking one way to professional people that you would see in work place, but in a slang type of way around her friends and family. Lyiscott talks about her identity and what it means to be articulate, because she infers that her other languages were raped away, or forcefully taken (Lyiscott 0:43-1:16). In this Ted Talk, people saw her ways as racist humor but, it was intended to show the different ways people can communicate while still speaking English. The way Angelou’s mother talks to her when she is asking for a smile, she asks her so many times to the point that she does smile. The way her mother was saying it, along with the several compliments that she received, is what made her smile (Angelou 25). It refers to Lyiscott’s talk by showing how her smile can’t be taken away, just like her language.
Angelou tends to go off on her imagery describing every little aspect to the reader. She becomes very descriptive to give the reader the feeling of being there, experiencing her story as she tells it. Angelou uses words such as beautiful to describe the conversation between and her mother and black to describes the color of her child’s hair. She describes New York and Stamps with all its different looks, along with the time phone call and fumbling that went on with that boy (Angelou 23-65). Imagery has been around ever since writing has been invented. People find a way to show us how what they see, feel, taste, touch, and hear all with just simple words. In the article, ”The Imagery of Rhetoric: Film and Academic Writing in the Disciplined-Based ESL Course,” Loretta Kasper shows how important imagery is for writing. Language is what gives contrast and comparison to the different stages of writing and the different lessons that Kasper mentions in his article. Kasper also spreads how using imagery helps ESL students become for literate of the English language in any American college and university. Imagery will help encourage a student’s ability in reading, writing, and speaking where they will be able to help a reader become more influenced in their readings (Kasper 1-5). Angelou uses imagery to show us the different events that she endured as she grew up in the New York and Stamps.
One example of rhetoric that Angelou uses is emotional appeal. Angelou lets us know how she manages to get through her moving to a different state and why she makes the decision to meet up with the boy her got her pregnant. Angelou believed that if she were to be with the boy, then maybe her body were start developing curves and bigger breasts (Angelou 36-37). Instead, Angelou told us that she became pregnant. She kept her baby hidden from her parents so she can finish school. As time passed, Angelou became more and more happy until she has no regret of having her baby boy. Although, she always wanted a daughter, her son was the best grandson she could have ever asked for. She gave us the idea of having become accidently pregnant can ruin a woman’s life, but Angelou learned how to use it to better her life. Angelou knows that all of her emotions may have not meant much to those around her and especially not to that boy, but she was able to overcome them while displaying how to never give in or give up on what you really want to accomplish. In Kasper’s article, he reminds us how important it is to encourage students of their reading and writing abilities. Through ESL, students can learn the importance of being emotional with character, maybe even develop connections between them (Kasper 1-2). Although it is not Angelou’s intention for her readers to learn how her emotions work, but she is very descriptive and ends up showing us great examples of how to use your emotions in your writings. 
	Feminism has been growing into a global phenomenon. Women are taking the idea of “feminism” to every big event such as concerts, or any protest that may be walking down your street. Angelou shows us that feminism is more alive now then it was back then. Angelou’s example was when she was said she was more courageous and proud forty years later because of the birth of her son. Angelou being a feminist herself, she wanted a girl. Since her child ended being a boy, she took her new born son and raised him like the daughter she always wished she had. Then again, years later she is still proud of her son which made her feel proud as a woman (Angelou 69). Considering her background, she is even mostly proud because she could raise her son as a single parent. Not many parents can do this, especially in the situation Angelou was in but somehow, she rose and gained the power and pride that is hidden within each feminist woman. Females have always played big roles in society, so when women directors were introduced, it was different. A female director is something you never here, but still isn’t something that doesn’t exist in the present time. Hollywood learned that only one percent of directors are made up of Women. To increase this number, they began promoting the idea of women directing independent films. Thus, the numbers rose and now women are all over the film industry. This was a factor to feminism as it gave women even more courage and pride in whatever they choose to do (Hankin 1-2). As Angelou shows us, feminism has always been around. She writes about how she overcame her struggles and how she later used those struggles to empower herself. They use key words such as pride and courage, and Angelou gives great examples of these. Through Angelou use logical appeals to show that what she says makes sense because feminism started way before her time and only escalated as we get closer to the present time.
	Angelou uses her religious background to connect to her readers on another level. Angelou described as charitable. She uses key words such as church, revelations, and philanthropist to show that cars strongly about her religion. She mentions ideas such as the world begging or everyone coming together no matter what color they were or language they spoke. Angelou wrote that John the revelator prophesized that there was going to many inventions that would ruin the air. John said that all these inventions were great and all but what people didn’t realize is that they are watching the end of the beginning of the world. He means that all these inventions are a great help and essentially give us a new world, but all the bad emissions that are given off will end it (Angelou 27-31). In the short article written by Nancy R. Ives, Ives shows us how important life is. She summarizes the idea of how to difficult can be and how Angelou’s own experiences. She mentions her pregnancy, moving to another state, and her cultural missteps. Ives shows the importance of independent and the earlier you take independence, the better (Ives 1). Ives talks about Angelou’s religious background by mentioning no matter how difficult life can get, you must keep moving forward. There are plenty of emotional appeals when it comes to Angelou and religion. I believe Angelou talks about her religion to show her readers more of her life and how even one of the safest places a person can go to, a church, can still mention such negative. Angelou also wants to show that God will help her no matter what. Angelou knows she may not have much to give, but she is willing to donate her services anytime because she is very charitable. After all, that is the whole point of a religion, to receive and give help to the anyone in need. 
 	In the article, “Letter to My Daughter” by Maya Angelou, Angelou uses emotional and logical appeals to help communicate to her readers. She uses logical appeals to help show her readers where racism first started to appear in her life. Racism was what helped her build courage and pride which later lead to the development of her own feminist ideas. Angelou uses imagery to describe her life in the most descriptive and colorful way as possible. She uses emotional appeals because Angelou is trying to convince her readers to emotionally readers that what she went through is something she will remember very vividly for her entire life. Angelou constantly uses emotional appeals for her audience just to pull them into her story just a little more. She uses emotional appeals to help portray her idea of independence and the steps she had to take to get there. Angelou’s goal was to try informing and convince readers on how to achieve independence. Angelou talks about feminism which leans towards a more logical appeal. Feminism is something that is within each woman, because feminism is just the idea of women standing up for themselves. There is pride and courage that is within each woman and Angelou logically notices this by showing her audience her story. Her story of how she came up and still raised her child in the conditions she was given taught readers how string women really can be. Lastly, Angelou uses her background to make logical references on how the world could be ruined one day. She mentions the way John prophesized at church and said that people are watching the end of the beginning of the world. She also uses the church to talk about how charitable she really is and how she is always willing to offer her services to anyone in need. Angelou displays many rhetorical devices but she uses several examples in her short essay to show the true meaning behind her essay, and how her essay can apply to everyone.
Angelou, Maya. “Letter to My Daughter.” Signature Reads.  January 1, 2012. http://www.signature-reads.com/2012/01/excerpt-letter-to-my-daughter-by-maya-angelou/?sp=email&share=blogpost . Accessed 13 September 2017.
Lyiscott, Jamila. “Broken English”. TED.  February 2014. https://www.ted.com/talks/jamila_lyiscott_3_ways_to_speak_english/up-next . Accessed 15 September 2017.
Kasper, Loretta. “The Imagery of Rhetoric: Film and Academic Writing in the Discipline-Based ESL Course”. ProQuest. September 2000. https://literature.proquest.com/searchFulltext.do?id=R03583711&divLevel=0&queryId=3011176462324&trailId=15DF18E737C&area=criticism&forward=critref_ft .  Accessed 14 September 2017.
Hankin, Kelly. “Documentaries about Women Filmmakers as Feminist Activism”. Project Muse. Spring 2007. https://muse.jhu.edu/article/212922 . Accessed 14 September 2017.
Ives, Nancy R. "Angelou, Maya. Letter to My Daughter." Library Journal, 1 Nov. 2008, p. 64. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=csufresno&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA188898255&it=r&asid=0807110d6a4e5af12f683c806b6274e6. Accessed 22 Sept. 2017
