	Have you ever gotten a call you would never forget? At 9:00 a.m. Thanksgiving day in 2016, I remember getting a call. My friend asked if I had heard what happened to my best friend. The night before my best friend had been in a really bad car accident. They pronounced her dead between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. This terrible experience made me more aware of loving more fully, the way I drive, and that it can happen to anyone. 
	To begin with, it influenced how I love more fully. I became more aware that there is no telling when life will be taken away from us. I always heard those sayings to live each day like it is your last and to tell those you love how you feel before it is too late. I never understood until she was gone, and I could not tell her I loved her one last time. It made me realize to always tell my family I love them before I leave the house. Also, it made me change my attitude and actions towards the people I care about.
	Secondly, it changed my view on the way I drive. I came to realize the laws of drinking and driving, speeding, and no texting while driving is only for everyone’s safety. After the car accident, I started making sure that I am always going the speed limit. I never pick up my phone or text anyone while I am driving. The quote “it can wait” is a very true statement. Also if anyone I know tries to drive after drinking I make sure they do not get behind the wheel. I make sure they get another ride.
	Lastly, I became more aware that terrible accidents can happen to anyone. A lot of people think it will never happen to them, or that it only happens in movies. Horrible accidents can happen to anybody in this world. I was one of those people that thought it would not happen to me at one time, I thought that I could never lose someone close to me in a car accident. I was sadly wrong because it did. Now that it has happened to me personally, I know that it can happen to anyone.
	In the end, it made me realize a lot of different things. It doesn’t only affect the person in the accident, but everyone that loves and cares about that person. Driving more careful and obeying the law can save more lives than I had thought before. Telling the ones I care about that I love them gives me closure every time I leave. Think about these things next time before you get behind the wheel.