Tik Tok I watched the clock, another minute passed and still no doctor. It had been over an hour since the nurses had moved me up to the third floor and the anticipation was getting to me. I read the three posters on how to take care of your body over and over again and clenched my red, swollen itchy legs just wondering what I did wrong. Just a few months before I was a normal kid, who just turned twelve and now I’m sitting at my 5th doctor’s appointment covered in red bumps that cover more of my body every week. Next to me sat my mom, she was fidgeting in her seat which was unlike her and every few minutes she would look up and slightly smile but I could still see the worry in her eyes. As more minutes passed my mind could only wonder what’s wrong with me and will they ever be able to stop the pain. 
My thoughts were then interrupted as a tan thin woman entered the room. She had a friendly smile and slowly made her way over to my mom, they talked in a whisper and I tried my best to hear them but failed. I kept my eyes on them confused as to why I couldn’t know what was happening and as quick as she came she was gone. Once she left I begged my mom to tell me and she wouldn’t. All she would say was that sometimes it's best to not know what’s going to happen and that everything will be okay, she was right about the first part. Still confused, I sat there upset until the doctor appeared again, but this time she had a tray of needles. She sat them down made her way over to me and asked me to lay down. I obeyed, and my mom came and joined her and grabbed my hand. Tears filled my eyes, knowing what was about to happen. The doctor explained that all the tests showed I had an autoimmune disease and were missing enzymes to break down certain foods. I nodded, not fully understanding what that really meant just focused on the needles. 
The doctor then explained that these needles were actually steroid shots and were supposed to help my body and stop the pain. I looked up at her and asked if she will promise me that they will stop the pain. She promised and I clenched my mom's hand. She picked up the first needle and started at my ankles. The first one stung and tears streamed down my face as she made her way up to my shoulders. After about the 10th one my body went numb and I just watched her begging for it to be over. When she was done, she wrapped my legs and arms in white bandages and said “I can’t believe you handled 26 shots, you did great” and left the room. 20 minutes after she was done, I could fully move again and my mom and I made our way out of the hospital that had become so familiar to us.
 2 weeks later I was back for more shots and this was only the second round out of seven that I had to go through. Every two weeks for four months I got 26 shots from my shoulders to my toes and little did I know that this was only the beginning of my journey with this disease. It took three rounds of shots for me to fully understand that this wasn’t a sickness that was going to go away and at twelve that’s a hard thing to take in. I never knew that I would be diagnosed with something that would change my everyday life at just 12 and how much it would not only change me physically but mentally. I couldn’t eat certain foods like wheat or dairy and I was allergic to almost everything. I used to like what I saw in the mirror, but I started to hate the way I looked and kept to myself because I thought everybody was staring at it. 
Learning to love myself again took a while, but I'm slowly getting there. I thought turning 12 was going to be my year, I was in the highest grade at my school, I knew everybody and this was supposed to be the easiest year but it was anything but easy for me. Finding out I had an autoimmune disease was one of the hardest things I’ve been through. I had to learn to love my body despite what it looked like on the outside and that this disease didn’t define me. It took me a while to fully understand my disease and to accept it, but I’m now proud of who I am and in some ways I'm thankful. for this disease. It showed me that you are defined by more than just your looks and that loving yourself for who you are the inside is more important. I have my bad days and good days like with everything but no matter how bad my days are I know I’m way more than just this disease.



