

Being a senior at Anytown High School felt like being one of the top dogs of the school. I remember talking to my friends telling them, “Wow guys, this is it. We’re really seniors. Watch how fast it goes by.” And I was right; it really did. But for my senior to come so quickly, there were many things that I have went through and I’ve learned from every single part of it.
Senior year came quicker than a Mike Tyson knockout punch and this year was grinding time. In the family household I grew up in, education comes first before anything; just ask my mother. I ended my junior year with a 3.3 GPA and my goal was to end my senior year with a 3.5 GPA. If I’m able to graduate with this GPA, then I can graduate with honors. But that was not the case. I ended my senior year with a 3.4 GPA. I finished the year off with all A’s and one B. Now, I must admit; I was a little disappointed once I found out I didn’t make the honors list, but I was proud at the same time. Throughout high school, I worked extremely hard on my grades. If I worked just a little bit harder, I would have graduated with honors without a shadow of doubt. I was satisfied with the fact that I even made it this far.
I grew up playing basketball since the age of five and I news I received was sort of heartbreaking. It was a chilly, school night on a Wednesday and tryouts for varsity was getting ready to wrap up. I had an overall, nice tryout; I distributed the ball well, played excellent defense, and shot the ball wetter than Stephen Curry. Well, that wasn’t the case for Coach Smith. Coach called me to come into his office with all the other coaches to find out if I made the team or not. As I took my seat, I stared at the coach. Coach Smith stood about 6 feet tall, had a scruffy beard, and a receding hairline. As tears began to fall from his face, he gave me this speech. “Sam, you’re a great young man and an excellent student, but unfortunately, I’m going to have to let you go.” His face was bright, cherry red. “I wanted to keep you, but I got outnumbered by the other coaches 1 to 4. I may be making the worst decision of my life, but we just have a lot of guys that play your position. I love you and I hope that you succeed in life.” I shook his hand as well as all the other coaches and as I walked out of his off, I ended the conversation with, “Thank you guys for the opportunity.” One thing I like about myself is that I don’t let situations like these put me down like it’s the end of the world. I have that “move on” or “it is what it is” mentality. The only regret I have is that I should of ran track all four years of high school instead of one; that one including my senior year.
It was a cloudy, gloomy night, but it was that time; graduation day. The feeling of graduating is like winning the lottery or winning a championship in a major sport. There were many emotions felt as our class left from the school building on to the football field to take our seats. The funny thing about graduation is that I was the very last name to be called during the ceremony. Just imagine being in my shoes waiting for your name to be called while the other 400+ students’ names are called before yours. But word to father, “You have to save the best for last.” And pops was one point with that one. I was nervous, as well as excited and ready for my name to be called. “SAM DOE.” Before my name was fully called out, I can hear the roars from my family members and my fellow graduates like they were a pack of wolves in the wilderness. This was the best feeling anyone could dream of. I received my diploma and I was going crazy like a gorilla in a cage as I took my seat. Till this day, my friends always tell me that I had the best calling. The highlight of the night was when I saw my older brother Keith. He had on dark, sunglasses and I seemed to notice him crying. For a minute, I thought that he was messing with me, but when he took his glasses off, real tears were flowing. When I saw that, I broke down in tears. Both of our parents circled around us and my father kept repeating these words that stick with me for the rest of my life: “We’re all that we got.” This night will be in my book for the greatest moment of all-time.
My senior year was most definitely a rollercoaster ride; I had some ups and downs. But I was able to manage to pull through and let nothing stand in my way. I treated everyday as a learning lesson this past year and I will continue to do so in the future. I was happy and thankful that I’d made it this far; it is truly an honor and I thank God everyday for giving me strength and to continue blessing my loved ones, as well as myself.