Compare and Contrast Essay

 
Love is a highly abstract concept that is difficult to describe with words. Throughout history people have tried to portray love through art, literature, and music. Sculpture 1 and Sculpture 2 both try to portray this concept of love. Both sculptures approach portraying this difficult concept in different ways but still have some similarities. We see the importance of style, location, and color in these two sculptures’ effectiveness in portraying love. 
The first major aspect of these sculptures is their style. The two sculptures obviously have many differences in style, but there is one important similarity with both sculptures. Both of these sculptures sit upon some sort of foundation. Sculpture 1 has a large block under the word LOVE, while sculpture 2 has a large rock underneath the two lovers. This is important because it points at the idea that love requires some kind of foundation and can not stand on its own. After this one similarity in style we can start to see the many differences. Sculpture 1 leaves more room for interpretation. Simply using the word LOVE, sculpture 1 lets the viewers draw their own interpretation based on their own idea of what the word love means to them. Sculpture 2 takes a more subjective approach and uses an image to portray a particular romantic idea of love. The style of each of these two sculptures both impact how each sculpture conveys love.
Another important aspect of these two sculptures is their location. While both have very different locations, they are similar in how the locations match the style of each sculpture. Sculpture 1 is a very modern, urban sculpture which is appropriately located on a busy corner of a large city. Sculpture 2 is a more classical type of sculpture and is located in a gallery feeding off of the beautiful background that brings out the sculpture’s features. It is also interesting to see the different styles that are created from the locations of the sculptures. Sculpture 1 is in a location where it blends into and resembles the architecture around it. Sculpture 2’s location does more to bring out the sculpture and the eye is immediately drawn to it. The locations of the two sculptures are used in similar ways to show the style of each sculpture but take a different approach in how each sculpture blends with its background.
The last major comparable aspect of these two sculptures is their use of color. Both sculptures make high use of the color red. This is an example of how red has become highly associated with love, this is because red is the color of the heart which is directly associated for love. It is fascinating to see two different sculptures with different styles use the color red similarly to portray love. A difference in color that can be seen in the two sculptures is the brightness of the colors. Sculpture 1 uses very bright, bold colors that match the urban style and location of the sculpture. On the other hand, sculpture 2 uses duller, more natural colors. In this aspect, sculpture 2’s use of color is more natural and artistic than sculpture 1 and feels like an artistic portrayal of love. Sculpture 1’s color use seems like a bright advertisement of love. The use of color by these two sculptures is very effective, even if they each do it in different ways.
Everyone has a different picture of what love looks like, resulting in many styles, colors, and settings used to portray it. Art is an amazing tool in which people can convey some of most indescribable ideas and emotions. The two sculptures conveyed love in different ways while similarly using their contrasting details to do so. Even when attempting to portray the same concept of love, the two sculptures had many of their own distinct aspects that made them unique. Love is such an abstract idea that it can be portrayed in many different ways, this is made clear by these two sculptures. Everyone has a different picture of what love looks like, resulting in many styles, colors, and settings used to portray it.


	