Actors and Professional Athletes Overpaid?

	Are actors and professional athletes overpaid? Do these people really deserve to make what they earn just because they were born with athletic abilities or because they are good at pretending to be someone they are not? Just because they are showcased on ESPN or HBO, does not mean they should make more than someone who spends 4-8 years going to school to get their degree. Public service workers and our armed forces put their lives in danger on a daily basis. Doctors and surgeons go to school for an excessive amount of years and save people’s lives. Actors and professional athletes do not deserve to get paid as much as they do.
	Actors make a variety of salaries depending on, what companies they have contracts with and how many movies/ shows they star or appear in. Actors can make anywhere from a few hundred thousand to a several million a year. Professional athletes’ salaries vary on the sport, team, and how famous the individual is. Most professional athletes make a few million a year.  Some actors and athletes must train and practice vigorously to be good at what they do, some are born with natural talent and do not have to train at all, and some become famous and get their job just because of who they know. The entertainment and sports industries are just like any other business. There is no reason they should get paid so much more than people in other industries, especially when people in other careers go to school for years, work a ridiculous amount of hours, and do jobs essential for society.
 On average firefighters annually make $46,000, Police officers make $60,000, and Paramedics make $31,000. Though these jobs do not require a college degree they do require extensive and training and courses. The people in these jobs risk their lives for others on a daily basis. They do anything from putting out fires, working car crashes, stopping gunmen, settling disturbances, and rushing people to the hospital. The work they do is essential to the safety of the population, yet they only get paid a small fraction of what actors and professional athletes do.
	Nurses make an average of $68,000 a year, family physicians make an average of $189,000 a year, and surgeons make an average of $500,000 a year. All these jobs require anywhere from 2-10 years of schooling. Everyone that has these careers work hard and pay a lot of money for an education. They are all very intelligent and do so much for the health of the population. They save lives and keep people well, yet they still do not get paid as much as actors and athletes. That does not seem right. 
	Actors and professional athletes get paid too much. They should not get paid more than people who risk their lives daily for the sake of other people. Even though doctors and surgeons are one of the higher paying jobs in the United States they still do not get paid as much as actors and athletes. People who save others lives should get paid more than people who do not have an education and do not work hard. Athletes and actors salary should be lowered.

