“The ache for home lives in all of us”, Maya Angelou. What is home? Where is home? When I think of the word home it reminds me of a place that I could always go to get things off of my shoulders and rest. My childhood house will always be my home, even though I only lived there for a short period of time, because of all of the wonderful memories and pleasant times that were spent together as a family as a whole.  If I had the opportunity to revisit my childhood home and feel the warmth of the love flowing through the air and the happiness that was once felt in that house I would bring my little brother along with me. I would teach him about my life before he was a part of it, I would tell him that everything will be okay if he has the will to continue to fight, and I would express to him how our dad once was. 
      Throughout my childhood, we had many ups and downs and times that our “family” was nonexistent. At the age of three, my parents decided they were not meant to be together anymore and unfortunately split apart. My mom and I went our own way and so did my dad. My dad soon found himself in another relationship, but I did get one of the biggest blessings in my life out of the deal, my little brother. My brother has always been my little sidekick and number one best friend and will forever continue to be. My brother and I are very much alike in many ways, despite our five year age difference. Both of our childhoods were not the picture perfect childhood that most kids are lucky to have. We both had to learn at a very young age that it was time to grow up and provide for ourselves. There have been several times that our parents have decided to choose drugs and other things that this world has to offer over us, which is one of the worst and unbearable feelings in the universe. To be able to survive a childhood where you have to make a choice that will determine your future at the very young age is extremely scary, but it is something where you have to think about not only the outcome for yourself but how it will also affect others around you. Being the older sibling I had unfortunately been through the situations that my brother soon had to go through around the time he was seven. My brother has struggled with making decisions on his own, keeping his head up, and being able to focus on the positive since he doesn't exactly understand everything that is happening. I believe that if I had the chance to express to my brother how things used to be in our home as a family he would be able to have a more optimistic perspective of how things should go and how he will possibly make them happen. 
     I have always had hope that my brother would fall in the correct path, but with him not having someone to guide him at such a young age he has slowly lost hope and faith in anything that would be a positive impact on his life. If my little brother was able to understand that our dad was once a great man and that happiness did live within his heart I believe he would have a much different perspective on things. Love is the most powerful source of all magic. It brings hope, trust, faith, and unity into one's life. It can also bring pain and heartache. If we went back to my childhood home I would express to my brother that there will be better days and that things will be okay in the end as long as he does have faith, hope, and trust. I would let him know that there have been very hard times that I have made it through, bigger and worse situations than he could ever even imagine. If he could be pushed and uplifted to a place where he finds hope I believe he would possibly be able to make it out of the horrible situations that are taking place at the moment. 
     Even though our dad has never been a “dad” or a role model, he has always still been mine and my brother's rock. Even after not speaking to my dad for a few months or a few years, I can always run back to him only because I know that he is still my dad no matter what decisions he has made throughout his life. Taking my brother back to my childhood home would possibly open doors that my brother has never known about. I would be able to express to him how amazing our dad used to be in the past and what it was like to have a family who actually acted as if they were a family at some point in time. My brother would have an insight into my story of hope, and I think that is what would help him get through the hard times of feeling alone. I have felt the same feelings he is holding in towards the world. The mixed emotions that go through your head throughout the day not knowing what is going to happen next are so draining to not only the mind but also the body. Letting my brother know how I had to cope with everything in the times that I was alone would help him as well. There have been many times when I was younger that I had no one to turn to and had no idea what I should do next, but I always was able to see the light at the end of the tunnel and I believe that is what got me through the flames of hell. 
     If I was able to take my younger brother to my childhood home I believe it would have a magnificent impact on his life. To let him know that our dad does love us and at one time he was a generous and caring man who did value his loved ones. Also to let him see that there is hope and always a light at the end of the tunnel as long as you continue to push yourself and have the want to make it through. To be able to express to my little brother that things will get better if he has faith and the will to do so. I firmly believe that if I was able to take my little brother back to my childhood home that he would have a more optimistic view on life and possibly believe that everything will get better in the end. 