Take a moment to think about your favorite actor or athlete. Consider the amount of money made every show or every game. It is indisputable that actors and professional athletes make more than the average American citizen. There are many assumptions made about the actors' and athletes' worthiness of their salaries. In some aspects, actors and pro athletes are overpaid such as the reviewing the pay of more vital careers like surgeons and police officers, but in other ways, they are not; such as viewing actors and pro athletes as role models and looking at the pay of new coming athletes and actors.    
In the view of other significant careers such as surgeons, doctors, teachers, policemen, and firefighters; I feel that experienced actors and professional athletes are indeed overpaid. Surgeons doctors, policemen, soldiers and firefighters save people's lives every day. Teachers save and help children or students. Each of those professions go to work every day to help make citizens' lives better. Experienced actors attend work to make money and entertain people; pro athletes go to work to earn money while they enjoy living their dreams and possibly entertain as well. Although, entertainment may help people who are depressed or simply in need of entertainment; without surgeons, doctors, etc. there would be few or no people to entertain. Soldiers, doctors, teachers, etc. have a more profound impact on citizens than actors and pro athletes, yet experienced actors and professional athletes are paid more. The average salary for a surgeon is five-hundred twelve thousand dollars to five hundred nineteen thousand dollars a year. The average salary for a professional NBA player is five million dollars a year. People who risk their lives every day for citizens to make their lives better are underpaid as opposed to actors or pro athletes. Therefore; from this point of view actors and athletes are overpaid. 
In another aspect, entry-level actors and new coming athletes do not get paid as much as experienced actors and athletes. They determine their pay from the amount of effort given. Job security does not exist for either of them. If an athlete or actor does not endure then opportunities will be missed and there will be additional people willing to fulfill each position. Normally it takes up to five years for an actor to receive higher pay and an athlete only gets paid if he/she is good enough.  Actors’ pay is based on their audience and ratings. Athletes’ pay depends on proceeds from endorsements, ticket sales, their performances, TV ratings, and people who support their sports.  Society ultimately provides actors and athletes with their pay. Also, many actors and athletes donate to charities. They give hundreds of dollars to those in need. In these circumstances, if actors and athletes are strong-willed and devoted to working hard to become successful and wealthy, then their pay is well earned.
One final perspective is viewing actors and professional athletes as role models. Children all over the world undoubtedly idolize them. Actors enable upcoming actors or those who want to become actors to chase their dreams. Athletes influence children to be ambitious and determined. They give people who grew up in rough environments hope. It grants kids and adults to overcome adversities and conquer their dreams. They demonstrate to kids that hard work and commitment leads to immeasurable outcomes. Many athletes even host camps for kids to become better and receive the chance to meet them. Actors and athletes may not effectively contribute to society like doctors, lawyers, soldiers, etc. do; but they do inspire children and young adults to be themselves and chase their dreams.
There are many factors to consider when deciding if actors and professional athletes are overpaid. We, as people, tend to presume without exploring the pros and cons of a situation. Although I believe that in some perspectives they are overpaid; it is narcissistic of us to be belligerent about one’s pay or lifestyle because we have control over our careers or what we want to be in life. We genuinely have the power to decide our future.

	


Works Cited
Smith, Jacquelyn. “The Best- And Worst-Paying Jobs For Doctors.” Forbes, Forbes Magazine, 3 Jan. 2018, www.forbes.com/sites/jacquelynsmith/2012/07/20/the-best-and-worst-paying-jobs-for-doctors-2/#2016d8a9a2a3. 

VisualNews.com. “Visualizing the Yearly Salary of Professional Athletes, NBA Players Average $5+ Million a Year.” The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 7 Dec. 2017, www.huffingtonpost.com/visualnewscom/visualizing-the-yearly-sa_b_4184716.html.
