There’s many people and places I hold very close to my heart; however, if I had to choose one person and one place, it would be my little brother, Will, and California. To be blunt, my little brother was diagnosed with Autism when he was only 4 years old. Autism is often portrayed in several different ways. Many people think people with Autism, on any level on the spectrum, are “retarded” or just intellectually incompetent. But no, people with Autism are very smart. I know I sound biased because of my brother, but I'm really not. Something really interesting about Will is how smart he is in the whole technology department. He knows everything about any laptop, ipad, and phone. One thing he is particularly interested in also is weather and forecast. He is obsessed with all news channels. He’s already visited many in New York like NBC and the Today Show. I, however, want to take him to E! Entertainment News Station located in Los Angeles, California. He loves Chicago Med and just about every famous actor on a, what he calls “medical show”. I want to take him there to not only let him live out his dream of meeting the actors of his favorite t.v. shows and to also see how a real news station runs, but also because I love E! News and I hope to one day be a host there.  
It’s always been super hard for Will to understand how things in real life work. He doesn’t understand death, sickness, or even the simple things like cooking up microwaveable popcorn. Will, being 14 and having the mind of a 4 or 5 year old, has always been drawn to silly kid t.v. shows like The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or Elmo. One day I went to tell him goodnight and I was really surprised to see him watching an educational medical show; it wasn’t like him at all. I thought it was just a one-time thing but it morphed into an everyday thing. He began to fall in love with the medical field and any show about it, fact or fiction. 
Prior to his sudden love for the medical field, Will non stopped watched any type of news channel; from CNN, WVTM 13 NEWS to the Today Show; Will was obsessed. After he found his love for medical shows involving real people, and not the cartoon characters he was use to, I found him joining my mom and I in the living room just about every night at 6 p.m. watching E! News to see if he could spot a glimpse of his favorite actors and actresses. Will is very to himself, as most children with autism are, and he has never really showed a lot of interest in people; especially people he didn’t know and had only seen on a t.v. screen. It was super exciting seeing him interested and involved with something other than singing nursery rhymes. He was starting to break out of his shell and really expand his mind to other things besides cartoons. 
While I love the south and all my family and friends in it, I have always wanted to be on t.v.. Of course, me being the typical teenage girl I have had the dream of being an actress; but this is more than an actress. I want to spread information all over the world. I love the drama and excitement of celebrities and I keep track of all my favorite ones like the Kardashian’s and all the Real Housewives. There’s not a better job in the world than being able to do interviews and get the exclusive scoop on all the drama from the people themselves! That’s one big reason I’m majoring in communications. I want to be able to get into the minds of the celebs I look up to the most. 
All in all, if I can let Will be a normal kid and absolutely make not only his day, but probably his entire life, by taking him to see where all his favorite actors have been and possibly meet them, and to let him see how a news station runs, I would so do that; and I, in the future will. It has been an active conversation between my parents and I. Not only would it be the greatest experience for Will, but for us all. I would get to see the behind scenes of the profession I eagerly want to enter. 
 
 
