Love sculptures
	Two people looking at the same thing may have  different perspectives of what they see. When looking at the “Love” sculpture and “The Kiss” we get different perspectives of what love is. Both of these sculptures have a powerful meaning to them and show love in different ways. Although these two sculptures represent love, the form, idea, and color are represented differently.
	In terms of form, both sculptures have similarities. They both show a form of what love means, which has a impact on people around the world. Both sculptures give people a understanding of love by showing one sculpture in action and one in words. Both forms give an emotion of happiness and joy. Conversely speaking in terms of form, “The Kiss” sculpture is shown in a physical form while the “Love” sculpture is shown in word form. “The Kiss” is presented in more of a sexual form between two people. This piece involves two nude individuals showing their love with a “kiss.” On the other hand, the “Love” sculpture is spelled out in public, which gives it a more universal form. The two sculptures are made of different materials. “Love” is made out of steel and “The Kiss” is made out of marble, which makes the two sculptures look and feel unique.
Both sculptures present the idea of love. They both give the idea that love is expressed by humans in some way. Love has such a abstract definition that can be explained in many ways. Although the sculptures are presented differently, they express love in a unique way. Conversely speaking, “The Kiss” is showing love personally between two people while “love” shows that love is something for everyone. “The Kiss” also shows that lust is present in love while “Love” is more like an abstract thought. As stated previously “Love” was made of steel and “The Kiss” is made of marble which gives two different ideas. Marble is very hard to break, reinforcing the bond between two people. But “The Kiss” gives the idea that lust is love, making people think it is really love. “Love” is made of steel and shows that each letter is connected to each other. This gives the idea that love can not be separated, once there has been a connection. “Love” is also placed out in the open for everyone one to see, unlike “The Kiss.” That could mean that love is not just shown in a bedroom, but in public as well.
The color of both sculptures helps symbolize the happiness of relationships. Both sculptures have a mixture of color which makes me think that love is not just something that is boring or dull. The colors of “Love” and “The Kiss” show that love involves happiness and interaction between people. People who do not interact with each other in  relationships are usually not happy and the relationship ends quickly. Both sculptures use different type of colors. “Love” uses more vibrant colors such as the red and blue to show that love is something that can easily be seen. Those colors makes people feel the happiness and joy love brings. “The Kiss” has a burgundy and grey color which gives it a earthy tone. “The Kiss” seems to be more private, meaning that the love is not really shown in public, unlike the “Love” sculpture. “The Kiss” gives a sense of intimacy between two people. Although it uses the color grey, it still gives a powerful feeling of love.
The form, idea, and color of the two sculptures present love in two different ways. The “Love” and “The Kiss” give a deep feeling towards the emotion of love. After looking at both sculptures, people can get a better understanding of love, lust, and intimacy. Love can be shown out in public or it could be in private. We see that love can be spelled out or shown by action. These sculptures show that there is more than one way that love can be shown or defined.













