In the United States of America and throughout the world, artist produce artwork to tell stories and make their voice heard. Throughout history, people have carved sculptures to explain and celibate certain ideas or concepts. One concept in particular is, is the idea of love; people all around the world attempt to unravel and define all the mysteries around this concept. Love is timeless and universal, concept that has greatly infulensed each society, and their artwork.  The concept of love is a favorite among artist and sculters, and many times they use this concept as a source of inspiration for their artwork. Although sculpture one and sculpture two both are about the concept of Love, the color, emotion and age behind the artwork establish its greater complexity. 
To begin, color plays an important role is all forms of artwork, especially sculptures. A similarity that both sculptures share, is that both artists chose to use color and background to place emphasis on the sculptures. However, each artist chose to do this in a different way, the artist of sculpture one dulls the background and uses bright saturated color on the sculpture to give emphasis to the sculpture itself. While the artist of sculpture two adds lots of color to the background of his piece, yet the sculpture itself has little to no color other than different shades of grey. In addition to that, both pieces contain the color red, that symbolizes love. However, sculpture one displays the color red more vibernt and neon red, contrasting details of electric blue, almost as if the artist intention was to advertise the concept of love to all who view his sculpture. As for sculpture two, the color red is only present in the background, and the color is more of a dusty dull red. 
Secondly, the inspiration for most art is emotion, that the artist is trying to show to his or her viewers. It is clear that both sculptures have been desined to show the emotions that come with the concept of love. If one were to look bellow the surface of the sculptures they would find emotions assioseated with feeling safe, feeling wanted, feeling protected However the two sculptures differ on the way they protrey these ideas, for instance sculpture one is bright, bold, and in you face. There is no reason to assume that the love sculpture one is protreying is a romantic love between partners, rather sculpture one protreys more of the strong emotional bond between best friends and the love they share. Friendship is loud and easy to spot in a crowd; people are more willing to let shyness go and live wildly while they are around their friends, because they feel so loved and understood by them. While sculpture two prtreys an obsouse romantic connection, and the emotions accompanied by being physically intimate with a partner. Physical intimacy requires a firm foundation of trust and the feeling of comfort necessary to be vulnerable. Romantic connections have the power to dive people to sacrifice everything for the person they love, because they feel so strongly for them. 
Thirdly, the age of art can give the viewer much insight into the deeper meaning of a sculpture. Art has evolved over the ages and has become an outlet for each generation to share the way they view concepts, including love. Modern day art speaks to the challenges that young people face in a society that is more technologically advanced than any other that has come before, yet is continuing to face new problems everyday. While Ancient art gives of a window into the past, of closed minded thinking and the overall idea of a more simplistic lifestyle. Sculpture one is an example of modern art and sculpture two is an example of ancient art, which sets them apart from each other. However the idea of love is timeless, so although each sculpture makes the viewer think of love on different timelines, the meaning of love is still the same. Love at its core, is a deep and meaningful conection two or more people share.
In closing, sculpture one and sculpture two both convay the concept of love, however they convay it in two different ways. Sculpture one screams color, has the emotional appeal of a loving friendship, and is an example of modern art. While sculpture two is dull, has the emotional appeal of romantic relationship, and is an example of ancient art. However, sculpture one and two both use color to draw attention to the sculpture itself, use the emotional appeal of feeling wanted, and convay a concept that’s timeless. When the viewer choses to look below the surface they may find all of these comparisons and contrasts, that make these two unique sculptures seem more alike.  


