Diagnostic Essay 


              In most cases, social networking sites such as Facebook and Instagram does serve as a substitute for a real social life. According to the Pew Research Center, Facebook users also visit the site with high levels of frequency; which means Americans use social media more than usual. With social media being used at a high risk, where do people spend their time when they are not on social media? As an American, it is hard to believe that we really have a social life when we spend more than half a day on social media. The reason for Americans spending time on social media varies from the news, to sharing your feelings on the sites. Each social site is different when targeting specific audiences. In this essay, you will have a better understanding on why social network is a substitute for a real social life and the consequences of social networking. 

 






     It’s called social media for a reason, but why do we use it so much?  The purpose for social media is for learning, sharing , interacting and marketing. Marketing and advertising through Social Media can be quite easy when you know what users are looking for. We live in an experience economy where value and trust are important aspects for the potential customer purchasing a product.   We also use social media to interact with friends and families that we haven’t seen in ten plus years and communicate with people throughout the world. With so much to talk about, we spend about six hours just interacting with other users. You can share information and ideas in a variety of ways. Different outlets allow you to publish your own ideas in writing, with pictures, or through videos and voice recordings; and you can also hyperlink your audience to interesting articles, pictures, and videos.   Social media can also serve as learning tool, which updates a person on breaking news, details on what’s happening in the community and broadcast of TV shows. Social media serves four purposes that would explain why it’s a substitute for a real social life; learning, sharing, marketing and interacting. 

    





     The consequences of social media will be a result of a person in prison, or no job to pay bills. What is stated on social media can be the cost of you not getting a job or held against you in court. Most jobs before they hire you, do a background check which includes checking your social media to see what type of person you are. Each job looks for different things but how you portray yourself on social media, is the result of who you are as a person even if the content wasn’t meant to be. It is very important to watch your content on social media because you never know who is out there waiting to sue you. For example, a white male  police officer shoots a black male in 2018 and in 2015 made a post on Facebook stating,  “ he hates black people” ; this situation will automatically be a result of jail time. The reason why social media serves as a substitute for a real social life because while on social media, your job will define who you are as a person, or you can be sued . 

     In conclusion, social- networking sites such a Facebook and Instagram does serve as a substitute for a real social life. Social media serves four purposes that would explain why it’s a substitute for a real social life; learning, sharing, marketing and interacting. Social media can also determine whether a person will spend jail time or won’t get the job. Americans needs to open their eyes and realize that social can determine who you are but what you portray on the media is not who you are most of the time. So get up get out and go SOCIALIZE !  





Bibliography 

    



