Loving Sculpture 
Everyone has their own definitions of the word love. People show and feel types of love in different types of ways. In two different sculpture: “ Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin we see two peoples physical representation of love. We can compare and contrast both pieces of art by the Era of creation, expression of love ,and the overall purpose of the pieces, . 
When looking at both of the sculpture we can tell that they were obviously not created in the same era of time but we can see where Augusta Rodin of 1882 and Robert Indiana of 1964. Augusta Rodin lived during a time where sometimes true love had to be forbidden and secretive so Rodin reflected his era of love in “The Kiss”. On the other hand, Robert Indiana didn't live in times of Forbidden Love. He created this “Love” sculpture during a time period where love was more accepting. Both of these sculptures were created in the dissimilar era but they have the same effect on people and that love.
Both of the sculpture express different ways to love.With love you can show it in different ways and forms. “The Kiss” is a sculpture of two people kissing with love through body language and physical affection. The love sculpture shows the passion in word form in its own artistics way of showing that language of love. The expression of love can be conveyed in different ways in order for people to understand. Those two sculpture do that but they express them in similar ways ,but different execution.
The overall purpose of the pieces may seem to be easily understood to be love but Both artists had a different personal reason to create each sculpture but the reason started to change once people started to viewing sculpture . “The Kiss” by Rodin was showing love but it was showing love from the perspective of lovers in Dante’s Inferno a.k.a The Gates of Hell. A unlike place for love to emerge from. Originally, the piece was  supposed to be included with a group of sculptures but the purpose changed to something better and more relatable. The “Love” also was Intended to show the artist to pay homage to his father and their love but its message changed when people started having their own reasons. 
Overall “The Kiss”  and the Love Sculpture look very different but they do have similar characteristics. We compare and contrast the elements of the sculpture to Further our understanding on how they are similar and different.  we did that by comparing and contrasting the era of creation,  expression of love and the overall purpose of the peace. 


