Comparison Contrast Essay
Love is a common theme in art and music. It has been so since the beginning of time and remains so even in modern times. An example of this is “The Kiss”, a sculpture by the French artist Rodin, and “Love” a modern work by Robert Indiana, an American artist. Both works are based on love, yet they are different. The differences include their mood, colors, and location; these differences make each statue unique but, both connect through their similar themes.
“The Kiss” is a very sensual statue that fills a room with a sense of romance. Rodin had captured perhaps the peak of the relationship between two French lovers. The two lovers are fully exposed in their bare bodies, the fact they are nude shows they have nothing to hide from one another. Love shows more obviously in this portrayal of the theme than “Love”. “The Kiss” is subtler, while “Love” is abrasive. Furthermore, “Love” still gives the same meaning of love, it presents it in a completely different manner. The large, bulky, 3D letters, give a warm and joyful feeling. “Love” is more like a plutonic love you feel for family and close friends.
“The Kiss” is very dull, with a grey marble fill. The lack of color on the statue adds character to its lewd image. It makes the two lovers appear more as silhouettes rather than distinctive people.   This implies that the artist believes love to be something that is shared between two people acting as one, rather than emotion that is expressed by two separate entities.  “Love” a prominent sculpture that capture the eyes of by passers with its bright vibrant colors. It is a more obvious statement. It is bold and holds none of the hidden emotion that “The Kiss” holds. “Love” reflects on a bolder statement, a more modernized version of the theme, proving that society no longer sees love as a scandalous act. 
A four-letter word as big as a fridge, with bright animated colors resides on a populated sidewalk for everyone to see. The word itself is a lot like the statue, it’s simple and means a lot to some people. It sticks out and there are multiple prints and is seen everywhere. Much like the word it is used a lot, and it is not uncomfortable to be seen. Just like “Love”, “The Kiss” reflects a kiss. “The Kiss”, the two lovers have settled down in an art museum in a more reclusive environment compared to “Love”. This expresses how the public sees the two works. “The Kiss” is not meant for the eyes of anyone who happens to be passing by. “The Kiss” is more elusive adding to the era it hails from, where art such as itself was viewed as something not appropriate for the public eye. 
In conclusion, while “The Kiss” and “Love” have similar themes they differ greatly as far as mood, colors, and location. Each of these factors proving further how art has progressed through history while maintaining the same major themes. Like how love is not characterized by just one verb but, can be viewed as sensual or joy. That love proving that society no longer sees love as a scandalous act. How not every love has to stick out but is between those in the relationship.
