
	
	It is a cold, windy Wednesday evening, in the middle of December. I mentally prepare to open Urban Air trampoline park in Homewood, Alabama at its’ scheduled time of 3pm. I usually arrive about 10 minutes early just to get in the correct mood before entering the workplace. This particular day, I happened to arrive only a couple minutes before opening. To my surprise, there was a group of customers in the parking lot waiting for us to unlock the doors for their access. Showing courtesy, I chose to allow them to enter early, despite being the only employee on site. Little did I know, the extent of the problems these people would bring for me & my fellow staff members.
	Upon their entrance, the group was extremely disrespectful. They refused to allow me to even answer any of their questions or even attempt to help them through the sign-in process. My thought process throughout the entire interaction remained positive because I didn’t want a long-term problem to insinuate from this situation. At this point, we’ve been in the building about 5 minutes and they’ve completely refused my service. 
	From there on, I am completely confused. Wondering was it anything different I could’ve said or done to make the situation better. As I begin to call the owner, looking for advice on the situation; my coworker Elizabeth enters the building and the entire mood changes. The group’s entire demeanor changed when conversating with her. Which made me feel that their discrepancy was personal towards me. I realize as I exit the area the group was in, they unified for a sign of relief, as if my presence was disturbing them.
	While trying to remain positive throughout my shift, I couldn’t hide the fact that, in my best interest, I failed to make a customer happy. So later that day, after the group left, I approached Elizabeth wondering did the group mention anything about their encounter with me to her. She told me that the group refused my service because I was a black male. I didn’t know how to accept this news at first. I wanted to be infuriated because it is 2017 and I’m still facing te same problems that people died for generations ago. I decided that I shouldn’t allow this situation affect me, because I did all I could do and people are going to feel how they want to feel regardless.
	This entire situation helped me realize no matter what happens, be the best person you can be and lived with the results. This also helped me realize that the quest for racial equality is far from over. The growth that I gained from this situation makes me happy that I was a victim of this circumstance.