How Much Is Too Much?
In today’s world there are many career options for people. Some choose to live the “Hollywood” life and others chose to become professional athletes. We have made athletes rich and famous to the point that we are paying them more than our service men and women and our teacher, but how do fix it?
Millions of kids have played high school sports and many of these schools required you to keep up your grades or you wouldn’t be able to keep playing. Having an education is more import than any half-court shot or touchdown. Some athletes and actors didn’t even finish high school or even go to college but are making 5 times what teachers make. Think about it this way; a top ranked military officer makes about 10 times less than a top wide receiver in the NFL. The people that are putting their life on the line every day for this country are getting paid pennies compared to your favorite actor or athlete and we are to blame for it.
How are we to blame you might ask? By watching or attending things for entertainment. By going to see a new movie or attending football games or watching any sport on tv or paying for a pay per view fight. We helped them all get rich and famous. I’m not knocking their hustle because some of them have worked very hard to get where they are at but we as a country don’t have our priorities in order. What’s going to be left when the sports are over, and movies go out of style. We must look forward to the future and teach the future generation what they should and need to know and how to be problem solvers.
There is no real solution. Some think that we could boycott everything and find creative new things to do. Others suggest leaving it alone. Many sports teams hold out on a player’s contract because they don’t want to offer the players any more money because of the amount they are already receiving. Many female actors are paid significantly less than their male counterpart and it’s been like that for many years, however in the past few years the actresses have been fighting to get equal pay and not just actresses it’s also women in every profession whether it’s sports or doctors or a female Walmart cashier.
So, in conclusion I do believe that actors and athletes are paid an astronomical amount of money each year. I believe that we should focus on paying our teachers and service men and women what their worth. I’ve always been taught that sports are a privilege, but an education comes first. As to a solution to this I’ve yet to come across one that would make a difference.