	Although Bissinger’s book and Berg’s movie are similar in many aspects, the pressures expressed, relationships involved, and idea of escaping Odessa are presented in various ways. Living in the south, everyone knows how important the game of football is. Many people take the sport seriously and of course want their team to win each time they step on the field. In Odessa, Texas, the standards have been raised for the beloved game. Friday Night Lights truly shows how the game of football can impact lives physically, emotionally, and mentally. 
	First, Pressure is often used in the Friday Night Lights book and movie. In each of these, the people of the town make it clear that they want nothing short of a successful, state championship winning team each season. The coaches and players both feel these pressures in many different ways. Some individuals receive more pressure than others, and they do their best to live up to these difficult standards. Beginning with the book, it is evident that the people of the town are die-hard fans. Before the season starts, people’s cars already have “GOIN’ TO STATE IN EIGHTY-EIGHT” written on the back windows (Bissinger 23). They hold an annual Watermelon Feed where the entire town is introduced to the Panther football team. The description makes it clear that the town of Odessa did not have much, but it was a town with a great football team and high hopes. Bissinger stated, “Gaines and the other Permian coaches were all too aware of the role that high school football occupied in Odessa, how it had become central to the psyche of thousands who lived there” (36). The people of this town lived and breathed for Friday night football. Another aspect of pressure is the way Don Billingsley is treated. His father, Charlie, was a star for the Permian Panthers and expected nothing less than perfection from his son. Sometimes Don struggles to hold on to the football, and this infuriates his father. Don feels pressure from Charlie and the coaches when he is replaced by a younger tailback. On the other hand, the movie expresses some of these pressures differently. There is no official meeting of the team like the Watermelon Feed, but there is interaction in local restaurants and everyday outings where players are pressured by townspeople to win state. There are pictures taken with players as if they are already famous. One specific clip from the movie that proves this idea is when Coach Gaines is leaving the grocery store with his family. Two men stop to talk to him, but their chat is not very pleasant and it ends with the men hounding the coach about winning the state championship. Also, after one of the team’s losses, there are for sale signs placed in the coaches yard. Concerning Don Billingsley, he is abused physically and mentally in the movie. His drunk father kicks out car windows, beats him, and continually disrespects him with the words he uses. Charlie is a hateful man that pressures his son in ways that no child deserves. 
	Next, the relationships in the book and movie were alike and different in various ways. In both of these, there were good and bad relationships within the families, friends, and teammates. Some of these bonds were healthy, needed relationships. Most of these guys had played football together since youth league, and they had an incredible friendship on and off the field. One negative person that stuck out in both the movie and book was Boobie Miles. He is cocky, disrespectful, and made fun of guys for the shoes they wore. He is a fantastic athlete, but his personality makes him ugly. He suffers a terrible knee injury and is unable to finish the season. This tragedy made the teammates’ bond even stronger as they came together to continue being successful. Many of the families are similar to ones we know today. They are imperfect, but they do love and care for each other. In the book, one relationship that I admired was Mike Winchell and his family. His father was sick and would soon die. After his death, Mike is distraught and wants to leave Odessa altogether. His brother, Joe Bill, thankfully deterred him from doing so. Mike ends up living with his mother after his father passed. They do not have the best relationship, but at least he remains close with his family. The friendships present were wonderful. The guys have various personalities, but they get along pretty well the majority of the time. For example, Don has a problem with drinking and partying too much and was out of control. However, his best friend Mike did not have this problem, yet they remained close. Also, Boobie ends up quitting the team halfway through the season to have surgery in the book. Some differences found in the movie begin with Mike Winchell’s family. His father is never even mentioned, and his mother is the sick one. Mike calls his brother and begs him to come home and help tend to her, but he refuses. She never dies, but she causes Mike a great deal of stress because he cares about her so much and does not want to see her hurting. I am able to see the personalities of the players much better in the movie. Their personalities shined as Mike still never wants to go out and party, but most of the other guys do. They encourage him to have fun and enjoy life. The other guys definitely do not seem as out of control as the book describes them to be. Finally, Boobie does not quit halfway through in the movie. He does attempt to play again and is quickly taken out of the game because of his injury, but he sticks with the team the entire season. When they load up the bus to travel to the state championship game, Boobie is there. He stands on the sidelines with his crutches. This brought the team together in a different way. At halftime, Coach Gaines used Boobie to encourage each player to leave it all on the field because people like Boobie would kill to be playing. All in all, the relationships play a major role in Friday Night Lights.
	Finally, the theme of escape was present throughout the book and movie. Often times, the adults in this story talk about how they were from Odessa themselves. Obviously, they did not go anywhere. There are also many conversations where the players are asked if they want to stay there or if they want to get out of this town. In the book, many of the guys are asked if they want to go play college ball anywhere. Of course, they nearly always say yes. Boobie made it very clear that he plans to become a professional football player one day. Another aspect of escaping are the people of this town. They are so content, and by the way they worship Permian football, it is evident that they will never leave this place. In the movie however, the main conversation about football after high school took place between Coach Gaines and Mike. When the coach asked him, Mike said that he did want to. It is clear that something is holding him back. Coach Gaines quickly tells him that he needs to do something about it if he truly wants to. He has the talent and abilities, but his sick mother weighs heavy on his mind. In the movie, it seems as if Mike can not escape his own thoughts. Once, he even asks coach if he believes one can curse themself because he feels like no matter what he does, it is never quite right. As the movie progresses, the viewer sees Mike’s confidence in himself grow, but he still does not accomplish what he hopes he would. The end of the movie streams information about many of the Panther football players lives after high school. Brian Chavez graduated from Harvard and is now a criminal lawyer in Odessa; Don Billingsley graduated from East Central University and now sells insurance in Dallas; Ivory Christian was the only senior to get an NCAA division one scholarship and he now lives in Odessa working as a long-haul truck driver; Boobie Miles played junior college football and now lives in Monahans, TX with his twin children; Mike Winchell played football his freshman year at Baylor and now is a surveyor in north Texas. Not a single one of these young men left the state of Texas. Some of them still live in Odessa. It seems as if this is a town people get comfortable and get stuck in their ways. The characters in Friday Night Lights are so caught up in the town and the game of football. When people get injured or ball games are lost, people do not know how to handle it. There is no way they can escape it because this is what they live for. 
	As you can see, books and movies of the same story can be compared and contrasted  in numerous ways. Typically, movies cannot line up directly with their corresponding book because of timing and due to the fact that hollywood needs good attention grabbers. Books are more informative and accurate for the most part, while movies tend to be more entertaining. Both the book and the movie are wonderful. Even though the Friday Night Lights movie and book are slightly different, each of them intimately show the life and vibrancy of a small town Friday night.