	It goes without saying that pieces like The Kiss sculpture and LOVE pop art are famously unique in their own way. The Kiss was sculpted and finished in late eighteen hundred, by Auguste Rodin. LOVE was created in 1970 by Robert Indiana. Both sculptures do not show much similarity as far as characteristics, circumstances during production, and reason for production. From my point of view, the art works The Kiss originally represented Paolo and Francesca, two characters borrowed, once again, from Dante’s Divine Comedy: slain by Francesca’s husband who surprised them as they exchanged their first kiss.
	
The first noticeable difference between the art works is obviously the characteristics. LOVE is a simple pop art that consist of the word “love”. The “L” and “O” of the word are placed above the “V” and “E”, which adds to the unique look of the pop art. The Kiss is a sculpture of a man and a woman caressing one another. The supposed action of the man and women in this sculpture can be described as love relating back to Robert Indiana’s sculpture.
	
Secondly, the art works were made at different times under very different circumstances. The style of LOVE came from a Christmas gift card which was commissioned by The Museum of Art in 1965. It appeared in prints, paintings, sculptures, banners, rings, tapestries, and stamps. The Kiss originally represented Paolo and Francesca, two characters borrowed, from Dante’s Divine Comedy. This only proves furthermore that the art works don’t share much. 

	The sculpture LOVE created by Robert Indiana and the sculpture The Kiss by Auguste Rodin both share some of the same meaning behind art work. The similarity between the two is love. This word attracts and speaks to people all around the world. Although they are spoken in different messages, they both give off the idea of making some form of love. Furthermore, this idea shows how similar they are.

	It goes without saying that these two sculptures are uniquely different from each other. With one sculpture being finished before right before the start of the 20th century and the other being created over half way through the 20th century. They have an obvious amount of similar characteristics which is minuscule except in meaning which in my opinion, are close messages. Taking things into consideration the sculptures The Kiss originally represented Paolo and Francesca, two characters borrowed, once again, from Dante’s Divine Comedy: slain by Francesca’s husband who surprised them as they exchanged their first kiss
	
