	What has happened to you that has impacted your life greatly and changed how you acted, felt, or that has motivated your thinking. One of the major experiences in my life that has impacted me was getting saved. It is one of the many experiences that has shaped who I am today. It changes my motivation in how I think and act. We all have experiences that changes how we act, feel, or think.
	First, I will talk about the setting I was in. I was visiting the church behind Walmart. This church used to be a barn with a silo on the side. It was then turned into restaurant and now is a church. I was sitting in the main worship center which is in the shape of an “L”. The center is in the middle corner of this “L” with a dark stained three-foot stage in the corner. The stage is decorated like an old barn would be with old wood planks against the wall with an old rustic color and vintage light bulbs dangled over the boards. There are three microphones on stands with two pianos to the left side, three guitars on the right, and a drumming stand in center in the back.  There are about twenty rows with an aisle on either side and one through the center. I was on row two toward the front on the left side.
	As for my mindset, I was basically the same way I am now with acting except that I went to church and went through the motions more than I cared to. I was saved before, but more to say I was I guess. The preacher was our associate preacher from our last church. His name is Casey Smith and that day he was wearing the usual blue jeans with a short-sleeved collared shirt. He is in his probably early forties and has dark blonde hair and repeats what he says many times to help others understand what he is preaching. 
	To tell the truth, I do not remember exactly what he was preaching about. I know the date was February 29, 2019 and parts of it were discussing about Jesus and how to be saved. He talked about the way to Heaven is through Jesus. Everything I have heard before, but this time I just felt more drawn by this and when it was time to tithe and the golden tray with dark hunter’s green felt in the bottom was going around music played over the fifteen-inch speakers and Casey was in the front so I decided to go up to him and tell him I wanted to be saved so a nominated member of church to help lead ,which is a deacon, carried me to the backroom and talked to me about it. Then, I got saved and a month later we had baptism. This baptism was different to me. There was a metal trough on center front of that stage and a carpet that led out the side doors. We would get in the trough and he would baptize us in that water which was surprisingly about the same heat as a warm bath.
	That experience shaped how I act. It motivates my thought process into wanting to sin as little as I can. I try to be better and to give more to people and become humbler myself. I am not perfect by any means, but this has changed the way I have felt by making me feel guilty for doing the things I know are wrong and changes the way I act to want to act better. It also has made me want to act in a way that shows my Christianity to others.
All that being said, my experience of being saved has changed how I felt, acted, and my thought process. That experience for me started in that old barn made into a church with old stain wood pillars above our heads in that old-style dark room. We all have an experience in our life that will change the way you think, act, or feel. This is my experience. What is yours?