	In our daily society, the distribution of funds is important to how we provide for ourselves as individuals, our families, etc. Without proper distribution of funds, priorities can easily not be taken care of as a result. In the entertainment business, athletes, actors, comedians are responsible for nearly all of either their individual, team or franchises revenue, through ticket sales, merchandise, etc. Therefore, those players are endowed to the majority of that revenue through payroll because of their performance. On the other hand, our government has many different areas of distribution for the funds they allocate through taxes, traffic tickets, etc. The government is also responsible for the pay of people who have the some of the most important jobs in society. The government has less freedom of distributing funds in comparison to individual actors or athletes, team, or franchises. Professional athletes and actors are not paid too much due to the percent of revenue they are responsible for, the competition for their job spots, and the ability to pay them at that rate, in comparison to workers for the government.
	As children, we often grow up idolizing actors and professional athletes. As a result of this, many of us eventually consider pursuing a career in the entertainment business. Unfortunately, the number of positions open for these careers are so low in comparison to the amount of pursuit of these positions. Jobs with limited positions often pay at higher rates in our modern economy. On the other hand, the demand for teachers and doctors are constantly increasing daily. This is another factor of their lower pay rates for people with more important jobs to society in comparison to actors and professional athletes. Professional athletes and actors are endowed to the majority of the revenue they generate, while the economics behind the medical and educational fields is not built to benefit teachers and doctors in the same way. The entertainment business depends on actors and professional athletes for revenue. In return, they have to pay them appropriately for the amount of business they bring. In contradiction, teachers and doctors aren’t rewarded for the amount of business they bring in because their production doesn’t always result in revenue. They might receive incentives based on performance or tenure but that isn’t always guaranteed. This is one of the many factors of teachers and doctors being paid significantly lower than actors and professional athletes, even though their job serves a more important purpose to society.
	
	Professional athletes, actors, teams, franchises, etc. have more control over how they allocate their funds in comparison to the government. The government is responsible for more things throughout society, so their ability to pay teachers and doctors at higher rates is diminished. While I agree that the jobs of educators, doctors, and nearly all government workers
serve a greater purpose than the jobs of actors and professional athletes, the government is simply incapable of paying them at that same rate. As a result of that, I do not believe the pay of professional athletes and actors should be diminished. The value of these individuals, teams, and franchises is too high for them to receive diminished pay. The diminishing of their pay wouldn’t have any effect on those who have more important jobs and receive lower rates of pay. To ask for diminished pay of actors and professional athletes would rather be requesting more taxes placed on their payroll, which would not only affect them. You could also be requesting that the revenue that is generated by their performance be more allocated to their owners, managers, team members, etc. which I personally don’t believe are underpaid.
	In the course of human events, people, business, corporations, etc. simply do what they are capable of doing. With this in thought, the government is simply incapable of allocating the same amount of funds for educators, doctors, etc. in comparison to the revenue generated for professional athletes and actors. I do believe that the job of educators, doctors, etc. is worth more than professional athletes and actors. Sadly, in the state of our modern economy, they are incapable of making that same rate of pay.
