The Love vs. The Kiss
The two sculptures that will be talked about in this paper a lot in common yet are very different. Sculptures A and B share the obvious similarities and differences things like being beautiful works at and being located in different parts of the world. Although these two sculptures represent love, they also represent a certain time period, emotion, and location
The time period surrounding these two sculptures were starting to move away from traditional canvas art to more physical and 3d art. However, the time period for Sculpture B was manly sculpture type art pieces that varied from small head bust to massive, ton pound weighing pieces of art. On the contrary, the time period for Sculpture A was not only sculptures and painting but also earth art like the “Spiral Jetty” by Robert Smithson. The time period for Sculpture A coined a new term called contemporary or modern art whereas the time period of Sculpture B was given the term romanticism which revolved around painters painting, sculpting, or writing how they felt.
These two sculptures are very similar as to the aspect of what type of emotion they express, which is love, but go about the physical expression in a different way. Sculpture A expresses the physical word love which has many different meanings and is left up to the viewer to interpret themselves. With Sculpture B, its physical expression is very direct. Sculpture B expresses a man and woman kissing which represents a romantical and physical meaning of love. The expression of love from both Sculptures also attributes to what city they are in.
The location of both Sculptures reflects heavily on how the representation of love is shown. Sculpture A is located in New York City in the United States where we are a free country and can do as we please which and Sculpture A captures that perfectly in the essence that we can choose how we express love to one another. Sculpture B however, is located in Paris France which is known as the city of romance. They both might not share the same location but their location does play a major role into what the artist made and why they made what they made. 
Even though they have major differences, these two Sculptures share many similar traits. Whether it's their time period, location, or the emotion they express, they all have one thing in common and that they were made by artist who love what they do and wanted to express our most powerful emotion and that is love.