Sculptures are often created to express a desire or emotion that every person feels. Many sculptures from all over the world have reached people in ways that words may never be able to. One theme often displayed through sculptures is love: an emotion we all experience at some point in our lives. In this class, we reviewed two sculptures: “The Kiss” created by Auguste Rodin, and “Love” created by Robert Indiana. Each sculpture is unique in its own way, but they also share some very similar characteristics that can only be discovered with a close eye. In this essay, I will discuss the similarities of these sculptures, as well as their own unique characteristics. 
Though it is quite obvious what emotion is being drawn out by both of these sculptures, they express it in different ways. Each sculpture evokes the feeling of a warm love, a love that we long for. In both sculptures, there is a sense of closeness. Each letter in the sculpture, “Love”, are touching, giving no end and no beginning to the sculpture. The same goes for “The Kiss”. It shows two lovers entangled in each other’s arms, with no end to their entanglement. Their bodies are pressed to each other in a way that shows the need for love. These sculptures both uniquely show the idea of closeness. Each sculpture is open to interpretation, of course. However, these are some of the of the undeniable similarities within the two. 
Though there are many similarities shared between these two sculptures, there are also many unique characteristics that each sculpture has on its own. The first sculpture up for discussion is “The Kiss”. This is a more in-depth idea of love and affection. This sculpture shows the physicality of love, how we show love ourselves. This is specifically an intimate love, whereas the sculpture, “Love”, is more open-minded in what type of love is being displayed. With “The Kiss”, intimacy is shown as a part of life, and a necessity to human nature. This love is confined strictly to humans. 
In the sculpture, “Love” there is a major feeling that love could be anything. Love is positivity; all of the letters are connected and painted in an eye-catching color. This sculpture does not confine love to any specific type or agenda. It shows that, by only using the word itself, love is just what it says: love. It does not define love by a depiction of what love often is. This sculpture could be describing friendship, telling us to love one another, to love animals, or even to seek love. This sculpture is completely open to any idea of love that anyone has to offer, where the sculpture, “The Kiss” refers to intimate, human love. 
As I stated before, sculptures are often created in order to evoke emotion from us. They are created for us to question, think, and respond to. Sculptures play a big role in the life of art. These sculptures are a great example of this idea. Both sculptures depict an idea of love, but it is up to you, the viewer, to decide what that idea is. Though they evoke deep meaning, each meaning is different for each person. This form of art is entirely based on interpretation. I interpret love in completely different ways from both of these sculptures. 