
Are professional athletes and actors overpaid? Professional athletes and actors are not overpaid due to the amount of value they are bringing in to their corporation. Actors and professional athletes are also risking injury, mental health and other thing that could harm them for the rest of their life. Last Athletes and actors have put a lot of time into their jobs and most of them are role models for the younger generation and most give back to charities. Athletes and actors are not overpaid due to these 3 reasons.

Professional athletes and actors are not overpaid because of the amount of money they bring into their corporation. Take the NFL for example the NFL makes billions of dollars a year. The players really deserve the money since their the ones actually out there physically making the money.  People are paying large amounts to see these actors and athletes play/perform. It just would not be right if they were getting all of these people to come watch them and they were making minimum wage. Also Television make a big amount of money off of actors and if they were not getting paid right then most actors would just quit.

	Professional athletes and actors are putting their body in danger almost every time they touch the field or stage. Also most of the time they are going through mental health issues do to the pressure and other thing that come with fame. Basketball players for example are putting their bodies at risk for the NBA everytime they touch the court. Actors some time have to do stunts that are dangerous and that could really hurt them. They are doing this for the good of the NBA and television. So they deserve the money that they are getting because there health is in danger.
	For the amount of time and sweat that actors and professional athletes put into their work they deserve every penny that they make. Most actors and athletes start their “craft” as you may say at a young age. And almost everyday since were young they have put their blood sweat and tears into it. A lot of them came from nothing and often give back to their communities and other things such as charities. And being role models for the younger generation they deserve the money.

	Professional athletes and actors are not overpaid because of all the things they have to go through. Also because of all the things they do to give back and be role models for the younger generation. They are making all of this money for their program and deserve getting paid all of that money. They are putting their body at risk every time they go to do their job. Professional Athletes and actors are not overpaid and deserve all the money they are paid.
	
