Taking My Grandpa to The Mountains
The mountain is a very quiet place. The name of it is Buck’s Pocket and is gorgeous. This is a place that I go to just think about my life. It is also a great place just to watch the sunset. I wish I could bring my grandpa to Buck’s Pocket, so I could talk to him about what has happened since he passed away, I could tell him how much I miss and love him, and I could ask him for advice on how to be successful for the rest of my life. 
First, I would talk to him about what has happened in my life since he passed away. I would start off by telling him how I moved schools my senior year. I then would go on by saying how I made the  Saxophone Line. I would tell him that my dreams are starting to come true. Knowing how he is he would ask me why I would move. I would reply,” I was sick of getting bullied everyday by different people. I was never good enough to them.” I would also tell him how my parents would not let me say goodbye to him. I would mention how I go to his grave and ask god why it was not me instead of him.  I just wish I could turn back time to see him one more time.
Next, I would tell him how much I love and miss him. I miss his smile, voice, laugh, and just everything. He used to sing to me whenever I was upset. He would sing many songs including I’ll Fly Away and Grandma’s Lye Soap. I miss getting to hear his voice when he facetimed me. I would tell him how much I loved him. I loved everything about him. He had an amazing personality and a great sense of humor even when he was in the hospital. No matter what he always had a positive attitude about it.
Finally, I would ask for some advice to be successful for the rest of my life. He would tell me that I need to keep trying even when life gets hard. He would also say that I always need to try to be nice to people even when they are mean to me. He would say to keep pushing through the hard times. He would tell me to cry because it does not show that you are weak it shows that you are strong enough to overcome a situation. He would lastly tell me that I should take a deep breath and relax. 
In conclusion, my grandpa was always there for me when I needed him. He even wanted to be there when he was in hospice. He was a great man that would give you the shirt from his back if you asked. I just wish he was here to give me life advice. I want to tell him how much I love and miss him. Lastly, I wanted to tell him what has happened in the past few years.


	
	