
Everyone loves and enjoys entertainment such as movies and professional sports. These two things have been the hottest around and they both will always keep people entertained. These two also pay these groups millions of dollars, but do they get paid too much? In this case, I feel like athletes and actors are not paid too much; they deserve a lot for the things that they do. Antonio Brown working hard off the field, Mr. Perry’s offering opportunities, and LeBron giving back to his community all fall under why individuals like these three deserve to be paid the amount they receive.
Antonio Brown, or AB, is the second highest paid wide receiver in the NFL and is one of the top wide receivers in the league. In the winter of 2017, AB earned a $68 million-dollar deal for four years, meaning the Steelers will pay him $17 million over four years annually and $18.5 million for three years annually. He earned this money from all the hard work he put in over the years on and off the field. All the dedication he put in caused him to earn 6 Pro Bowl selections, 4 First-Team All-Pro selections, and 2-time leader in receiving yards and receptions leader. From recent YouTube videos, this dude’s work ethic is freakishly amazing!
Tyler Perry falls in a category as one of the most successful actors and filmmakers in this generation today. He is most known for the growth of his series of Madea plays/movies, as well as having multiple TV shows on Oprah Winfrey’s “Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN).” Growing up, Mr. Perry was going through a lot involving family issues, dropping out of high school, bouncing from job to job, even attempting suicide at one point. One thing I respect about Mr. Perry is that he opens doors and offering opportunities for those who need a boost for their careers. He tries to help as much as possible because he would hate to see someone go through the same struggles he had to deal with. His success is the reason why he earns so much.
In my opinion, LeBron James is the best NBA player of all-time; you can get mad at me all you want. 3-time NBA champion, 14 All-Star selections, I can go on and on. But what some people might not know is that is that he is a terrific father figure and he always gives back to his community back in Akron, Ohio. On July 30th, 2018, LeBron opened a public elementary school called the “I Promise School”. Students who attend this school will receive free bicycles, free meals, and free college tuition. This is huge because you might have those who may not be able to afford to pay for their children’s education. LeBron went through the same thing growing up, so he would love to see young children success and be able to receive a good education.
It’s not such a bad thing for actors and professional athletes to earn millions of dollars. If you think about it, these types of people use their millions for a purpose or a cause. Its not like they’re wasting their money at some club, or someone doing something reckless like throwing their money in the garbage can. Most of them are using their money for the greater good. When you make millions like Antonio Brown, Tyler Perry, or LeBron James, you can do billions of things with it and you can use that for your benefit, or to help those who are in need. 



WIRE, SI. “Antonio Brown Agrees to Four-Year, $68 Million Extension.” SI.com, Sports Illustrated, 2017, .
“Antonio Brown.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 28 Aug. 2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Brown.
Television Network, A&E. “Tyler Perry.” Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 8 Sept. 2017, .

Zahn, Max. “Lebron James Opened a School. Here's What You Need to Know. | Money.” Time, Time, 31 July 2018, time.com/money/5354265/lebron-james-i-promise-school-akron/.

/