The  Bracelet 
  From the moment I began to think for myself, I knew that I wanted to help those who were less privileged. Throughout the years I have walked the earth, I struggled with the question of “why?”.   It did not make any sense to me, why I was born into such privilege, while others do not have access to proper education or clean drinking water. On the news, I heard heart-wrenching stories of child soldiers in Sudan, fathers abusing their daughters in my own community, and people dying of preventable diseases in Central America. I found myself looking around and struggling to understand how people like me could see these tragedies and simply look on with blank faces and not do anything about it. At moments like that, I decided that I wanted to be the one to see healing happen down my street and in the nations. 
At age thirteen, I began to save every penny I found on the street and dollar I earned to put towards a service project. I continued this until I had a large amount of money saved up. I debated where I should go and who needed me the most, until I saw pictures of my church’s mission team in Belize. They were taking medicine into remote villages and making a difference in the hearts and lives of these people. At that moment, I knew that that was where I needed to be. I talked with my parents and after careful consideration, they agreed to let me go the summer after my junior year of high school. My face lit up like a Christmas tree! I could not believe that I was finally living out my childhood dreams, however, nothing could prepare me for what I was about to encounter. 
On July 13th, 2017, I boarded a plane that would take me to the place that I now consider holy and sacred. It was early in the morning and from the plane’s window,  I watched as we flew over cotton candy clouds and watched the 6:00 AM sunrise. I felt prepared, as if my whole life had been leading up to this one moment. When I stepped off the plane, I took a deep breath and prayed that my mission team would see healing happen in this nation. I looked around and saw Belize City, painted in every shade of gray, a far cry from the pamphlets travel agents show of Belize. It was not until we rented vans and began our journey to the southern region of Belize that I recall seeing color. We drove past dull grass huts, children selling honey-colored mangos by the side of the road, closed schools and wells filled with muddy water. Earlier that morning, I felt as though I was prepared for what I was about to see, but I do not think anything could prepare someone who grew up with privilege to encounter poverty for the first time. 
We woke up early the next morning, loaded the vans and drove deep into the heart of the jungle. Bright blooming flowers and green prickly bushes escorted us past rushing rivers. Suddenly, we saw grass huts, naked babies and children singing and waving with such jubilee, welcoming us into their village, but more importantly their hearts. They followed our van, dancing almost to an illusion of a parade, to give us the finest honor. When our van came to a stop and I stepped out, a handful of children with braided hair and dirty clothes huddled around me. They were shy and beautiful. I told them my name “Sam”, they giggled and in broken English told me their names, one at a time. They had genuine joy and were eager to learn about the Bible and receive the medical care they so desperately needed. My heart was broken and somehow full at the same time, a feeling only those to dare to step out of their comfort zone will experience. 
Our nurses began to assess each family and I taught Bible lessons. With each passing minute, the children became more comfortable with me and would hang onto my arms and legs. I remember wondering how they has such contagious joy, when those around me in America always seemed to have something to complain about. One little girl would follow me around and hold onto me, as if she had known me forever. She had dark brown hair braided tightly into a ponytail, deep brown eyes and a smile that could not be sweeter. When it came time for our mission team to leave the village that day, I felt a tug on my arm and of course, it was that sweet girl. She looked down at her wrist, then took off the bracelet she was wearing and proceeded to put it on my wrist. It took me a minute to realize what was happening: a little girl, born into poverty, gave me one of the only possessions she had. It did not make any sense to me.  I had come to Belize to help people, but in reality, they were the ones to teach me valuable lessons about what it really means to give. 
Deep in the heart of the jungle, in the southern region of Belize, I learned what it meant to truly give yourself to people without hesitation and witnessed a love so strong it crosses oceans and borders. I spent sixteen years of my life believing that I could change the world, but it only took one bracelet to teach me that every single act of kindness changes the world. Since returning home from Belize, I have learned that there will always be more that I can give, more ways to serve, and more time to love those around me. It is easy to give out of your wealth, but harder to give out of the things you lack. I had to step outside my comfort zone to realize what true love really is.



