	In Friday Night Lights the movie and Friday Night Lights the book, there are many themes shared between the two. Although the themes are shared, when you take a closer look at the book and the movie you can see that some of the themes can change. While some changes are big differences and some are small, the theme still remains present in both works. The storyline  in the movie is different from the book in some ways but even with that, the themes remain. I will establish the similarities and differences of three themes which are relationships, adults living through their children, and education in the book and the movie and showing how even though the theme remains in both works, it varies between the two.
	First I will be talking about the theme of relationships. In the book, Mike Winchell’s father is and their relationship is mentioned. We are also given background information on him and we find out that he is dead. However in the movie, his father is never mentioned. His father is non-existent in the movie and we never find out any information about him or his relationship with Mike and that is how there is a difference between the two. The theme is similar in both the book and the movie when it comes to Mike’s mother however. She is active and plays the same role in Mike’s life in both the book and the movie.
	The second theme I will be talking about is adults living through their children. In the book, L.V. shows his admiration for Boobie and it is told of how L.V. also used to play football and was good at it. L.V. seems to reminisce of when he used to play by watching Boobie. Although Boobie is not L.V.’s child, they are very close to the point where it seems that way. However in the movie it is different as not much of L.V.’s past and football career is brought up although he does still enjoy watching Boobie play. A similarity could be of how in both the book and the movie, Charlie Billingsley is constantly pushing his son Donnie to be better at football no matter what it takes, even if it’s embarrassing him. His ambition for Donnie to become better and get a ring is seen in both the movie and the book.
	Lastly I will be talking about the theme of education. In the book education is frequently mentioned regarding the football players. Most of the players are either failing or are not capable of passing but are passed anyway. There are exceptions though such as Chavez. Most of the players constantly struggle to keep their grades well. However, in the movie, education is not talked about as much and you never really see a classroom setting. A similarity could be how in both the movie and the book the players are lied to about how after high school they will get to play football at a college and make money so they should not be worried about their education.
	While there are many themes present in both the book and the movie, the way they are shown can change between the two. The overall theme still remains although how it is portrayed is altered. The book and the movie seem to take their own approach on these themes. There are differences and there are also similarities of how they are shown in the two. Relationships, adults living through their children, and education were three themes that I found to have the most noticeable similarities and differences.
	