FNL The Movie vs The Book
	The book vs the movie is a conversation that is often talked about. Because the book and the movie always seem to handle the same themes and scenarios differently. The same occurrence happens in Friday Night Lights in both forms of media. The themes of relationships, motivation, and life are comparable yet also different. Although the Friday Night Lights movie and book discuss both masculinity, motivation, and life the book does a better job of giving the themes more depth and understanding. The first theme that will be discussed is the aspect of relationships. To compare both of them they both mostly kept the relationships the same in terms of family members within the book. It does the aspects and main way they treat each other the same. But the way they depict the relationships with the coaches, staff, and town is where the contrast lies. The relationship in the book has more depth with the coaches going on tirades and displaying excessive aggression towards the players. Unlike In the movie that aspect is skipped for more pressure related themes and not displayed. Next theme being compared and contrasted is motivation.  The alike thing between the two is the motivation is the same for the team. Which is the state title that Permian has won, and the players have become obsessed with.  However, the contrast lies in how the motivation plays out. In the book the motivation plays with them not even reaching the state championship game. They lost in the state semifinals. From the other side in the movie they somewhat realize the motivation by reaching the state championship game. The movie takes away some depth of how the motivation for state affects the school. With teachers passing the athletes not deserving so they can be ready to play for the games. The final theme being discussed is how the theme of life i. The comparable aspect between the two is that boobie’s injury is the catalyst for this theme. In how it gives life to the 3rd string to step in his place. Also comparable between the two is that the lives of Boobie and Mike still have similarities with not having a father and having another family step in and be the key to their development. Also, coach Gaines life differing vastly from that of most coaches. However, the contrast between the two in how they handle it is that in the book they showed life after football for the players. In the book we got to read what happens to them as an adult and how their life and experience as a Permian football player set them up for failure. While in the movie we see no instance of this playing out. The book and the movie both did good jobs of depicting the themes. Although the movie takes away some depth and power from them. Which in turn is why I think the book did the themes better.  The depth of the themes goes towards the depressing mood and reality of the story of Permian High School and their players. The themes were perfect to be the focal point in both forms of the story and in my opinion if you wanted to know the story of the town of Odessa and the players of Permian the book to me is the best way of doing so.

	