If I had the opportunity to bring someone to my hometown alive or dead the first person at the top of my list would definitely be Marylin Monroe. To the eye, Marylin Monroe looks just like another model and actress known for her looks, but what makes Monroe so interesting is that she was so much more than just a model. She changed the public working industry for women and gave women a voice in a time where they did not have one. I would pick Marylin Monroe because she was powerful yet so deceiving, she changed the modeling industry, and she left a lasting impression on the fashion industry that still affects women today.
 	 One main reason I would choose Marilyn Monroe out of anybody is how she was deceiving. On the outside Monroe looks just like the pretty “blonde bombshell” turned model but, in reality she changed the public working industry standard for women. Before Monroe, it was very unlikely you would a woman outside the home, let alone in the public eye. Women were looked at as housewives and meant to be around to take care of their husband, but Monroe’s break into the spotlight changed that vision for a lot of people. She showed people there was life outside of housework and that women could be way more than just housewives. Not only did Monroe help women she also advocated for civil rights within the public eye. In the 50s, a time where African-American performers never got much of a chance Marylin Monroe would tell venues that if they hired them she would come to the show and sit front row. Most venues would listen and because of just a simple request Monroe got many performers jobs that would have gotten overlooked, and to her that was not anything special she was just doing what she thought was right.
 Another reason I would pick Marylin Monroe is because of how she changed the modeling industry and stayed away from social norms for her time. When I was younger modeling was a big part of who I was and whom I wanted to be and, Marylin Monroe’s lasting impression on the industry helped me create my views on it. Before her modeling career took off you rarely ever saw curvy women in the spotlight. Most magazines focused on sizing zero very petite girls and Monroe was almost the complete opposite of that. She wore a size four and was not very tall and did not fit into the standards of what a model should look like. Yet people have seen her everywhere and I think that helped change a lot of people’s views on models. Monroe also viewed modeling as something she loved and not just as a job. Her outlook on modeling as more than just work really helped me when I was going through that phase. I always reminded myself that I did not have to be this perfect size zero girl and I should love what I am doing, because one of the most iconic models of all time never came close to a size zero and loved every minute of what she was doing. 
The last main reason I would pick Marilyn Monroe is because of how she left a lasting impression on the fashion industry that has influenced some of my favorite stars today. When Monroe got into the spotlight how she dressed transformed how women all over the country started to dress. Monroe was not scared to show skin and wear risky out there clothing. One of her most iconic looks is her white dress that was tight and became flow at the bottom and stars today still try to recreate that iconic look. In her time most stars would never be caught in anything “casual” yet Marylin always switched between casual and high fashion looks that always kept people on their toes, and showed other celebrities you did not always have to dress a certain way. Stars today like Lady Gaga and Beyoncé have taken looks from Monroe and recreated them in today's times and I think that just shows how timeless she really is. 
If I ever got the opportunity to bring Marylin Monroe to my hometown the first thing I would share with her is how much she has not only influenced me but a lot of women in the world. She showed me that I did not have to be kept into standards and staying true to who you are is one of the most important things. I would also tell her about how different today's world is compared to when she lived and how much she helped change things for women all over the world. I also would ask her a lot of questions about her career and how it changed her because we know how much she changed the industry for us, but we do not know how hard it actually was for her to not stick to the social norms for her time. Getting the opportunity to bring Marylin Monroe to my hometown and talk with her would be a once in a lifetime experience that I would never forget. She was such a powerful woman who changed so many industries and still influences us today and I do not see anyone more fit to choose and share today's world with
	