Narrative Essay
	One chilly morning in March, I stumbled across the warm, wooden floors of my bedroom as I attempted to quickly put on my uniform. It was always still very cold at the beginning of the spring season in the port city of Anytown, Alabama. I could hear my brother at the bottom of the stairwell screaming, “Hurry! You’re going to miss your race!” I clumsily tumbled over my own foot as I hustled down the hall way. Finally, I made it to the front seat of my brother’s car and held on tightly to my fastened seat belt as he sped to Anytown High School. 
Finally, I made it to the track at the back of the large, historical high-school. The beaming sun and my intense nerves caused me to sweat vigorously. Simultaneously, the brisk winds made the beads of sweat that were sitting on my skin feel like tiny snow-flakes that wouldn’t melt. My head coach walked towards me as I ran towards the team area. His face was red and he slowly shook his head in discontent. Before I could explain why I was late, he rudely disrupted me by demanding that I run the 100 meter dash. This was devastating news for me considering the fact that I had not ran that event since my middle school days and my primary events were horizontal jumps. 
As a result of my discontent, I went to my event coach to protest. He agreed with me, considering the fact that I had complained about my hamstrings being uncomfortably tight during the past week. Although we both decided that me running a sprint event wasn’t the best idea, the decision was not up to us. I didn’t want to let my team down so I began to warm up as preparation for the race. Eventually, the officials made the announcement for all competitors running the 100 meter dash to report to the check-in area. After checking in, I jogged to my lane and began to set up my blocks. Other competitors from different schools noticed that I wasn’t myself. My friend Chelsea looked over at me and noticed that I seemed uncomfortable and uncertain. She whispered, “Are you okay? It’s just 100 meters. It’ll be over before you know it.” That was exactly what happened. It was over before I knew it. 
Suddenly, the loud, sharp blast of the gun went off and I pushed out of my blocks as hard as I could. I could feel the adrenaline pumping through my body with each stride I made. “POP!” I felt something in my right hamstring muscle disconnect and the pain rushed down the rest of my leg. It hurt so bad, I became weak and fell to the ground. The audience in the stadium stands were so loud and concerned; I felt like I was at a football game. All I could do was roll around on the ground, crying in excruciating pain. My eyes were closed and I felt anger and embarrassment. It was the most important year for recruitment and now my whole track career was over!
After a couple of minutes, I opened my eyes and several team mates, coaches, and trainers were surrounding me. Finally, my brother picked me up and carried me to the trainer’s table. My head coach seemed so nonchalant because he repeatedly said, “It’s only a hamstring pull. You’ll be fine.” I was so angry at him and I tried to scream, but the only thing that came out was a cry. The trainer informed me and my brother that there was nothing he could do. My options for treatment singled out to resting and physical therapy. As my brother and team mates assisted me to the car, other people gathered around or lingered. I could hear them whispering and I saw people shaking their heads in discontent. When I got home, I fell on the living room couch and cried myself to sleep. After a few hours, I woke up to my parents trying to comfort me. My phone was drowning with missed calls and text message notifications. I wasn’t in the mood to reply to any of them. One of the missed callers was my best friend. He was the only one that I would talk to and I took advantage of his concernment by venting to him for hours. Finally, I stopped talking to see what he had to say about this incident. There was an awkward silence at first, but his response gave be abrupt peace. He simply quoted my favorite Bible verse, Romans chapter eight, verse eighteen. “The pain that you’ve been feeling, can’t compare to the joy that’s coming.” He told me everything would be alright and with my faith I believed him without a doubt. All I needed was a reminder that life has its hassles and chaotic periods. With the help of God, everything eventually returns to how its supposed to be. 

