Artists use different judgements and thought processes to portray their own ideas into their artwork. This can entirely depend on the area they were born into or their own personal views. To be able to completely understand where each artist is coming from one must look at the era the piece was made, the location it is placed at, and the reasons the artists created the works. 
“Love” by Robert Indiana was created in 1970’s for the purpose of a pop art installation. The idea of love at this time was seen through women’s movements and acceptance of people and their differences. Love was shown more through action and relationship and was not as romantically inclined in the 70s. “The Kiss” was sculpted in the 1880s and was created in relation to Dante’s Divine Comedy and a few of the characters in it. The era from whence this sculpture was created had a more damning look on love and its consequences. The artist portrays the extent people will go for the people they love. Love was such a drastically different thing to both generations that it was revealed through the artwork that come from them. 
The location of “Love” is in Philadelphia and has been there for over forty years. The city the piece is located in has renamed one of its parks to “love park” to commemorate the sculpture. Philadelphia is known as the “city of brotherly love” so the sculpture fit perfectly into its surroundings. “Love” is what’s known as a pop art installation meaning it was meant to be temporary. Compared to “the kiss,” which was created in and now is in Paris’ Musee Rodin in the Hotel Biron. The extreme differences in the places the sculptures are at shows a comparison in sophistication and concept. The major differences can relate to the time periods as well as the worth due to their two separate conception. 
Robert Indiana’s idea behind the simple four letter word was extremely personal for him and was attributed to his father. He got his color scheme from the sign where his father worked and the color of the sky when he lived in Indiana.  “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin was purely romanticized and based around a book and its characters. Both are similar in the way they added personal touches and sentiment to their art. In both pieces the artists used something dear to them to give a deeper meaning. In “Love” Robert Indiana uses not just his family but the society from which he was raised and the meaning of love to him. In “the kiss” the book and the idea of sexual love in that time was very prominent and showed in his work. 
Artists use a more in depth meaning when creating their work. Inspiration comes from everywhere and when it comes to the two pieces “the kiss” and “Love” they are more different than similar. In comparison to not just the eras they were created but also the influence they had on society they are across the spectrum from each other. While one depicts the irony of a city but also the greater meaning of love through personal relations the other uses the more romantic view of things with the sensual side of love. 
