	Every Friday night in Odessa, Texas almost eighteen-thousand football fans fill Ratliff stadium to watch the Permian Panthers play under the Friday night lights. Football can be a very exciting and exhilarating sport. In some situations, though football can be a not so enjoyable or fun sport. Football players, especially The Permian Panthers, deal with many things in this case with Odessa there is pressure on the players and the coaches, but they experience different pressures from different people. Another thing that many football players including Permian deal with is life and death. There is more to life and death than the physical literal meaning. There is the meaning for when one thing ends that could bring about a new beginning to something else. Like Boobie’s career ending and Waterbug’s beginning. Everyone has pride in something. In Permian many people also toss around cockiness with pride. 
	In Odessa the Permian player and coaches both are very pressured. They are both pressured by the people around them which should be giving them support. One instance when Coach Gaines has a run in with some of the football team boosters which tell him he needs to when win state or its going to be a bad deal for him. Another example for Coach Gaines is some of the former state champion players will tell Coach Gaines how and where to put his players. One example from a player’s standpoint is Donny and his father where his father duck tapes his hands to a football and beats the football in his hands. He also is yelling at Donny asking why he cannot hold onto the football. Another player, Mike Winchell, is constantly pressured by his mother to do good at football and play for a college. To contrast, they both feel pressured by people that should be giving them support, but the difference is Coach Gaines is pressured by the community while the players are typically pressured by their parents more. 
	Life and death relate to each other as they go hand in hand. You sometimes cannot have a new start without first having an end to something. As Coach Gary Gaines moved to Odessa, Texas one part of his life was over, and he moved on. On the other hand, his new role as the Permian Panther’s head coach was a new start to something else. He needed to end one portion of his life to move on and begin new in Odessa. Life and death contrast as they are two completely different ideas. They are the end of something and the beginning of something else. As we see in the first scrimmage when Boobie injures his leg that injury puts Boobie out of this season ending his football career. This also springs to life the beginning of Chris Comer’s, Waterbug, new career as the new Permian fullback.
	Pride and being cocky are two different characteristics. We see many examples of this in Permian. One way we can compare being cocky and being prideful is that they make you both feel very sure of something. Boobie Miles is very good at football and very cocky. He knows he is very good at what he does and thinks he is better than everyone else. L.V is very prideful of Boobie knowing how good he is. He is not cocky about Boobie as he is very proud in his accomplishments and wants him to do good. That is to say that being cocky makes you much more self centered than being prideful does. We see this in locker room where Boobie is telling Ivory Christian that God made Boobie beautiful. As time goes on he acts as if the team could not win without him.
	To conclude, football is one of the dominant sports in this country and most definitely Odessa, Texas there are many things that players and some coaches deal with. They deal with the horrible pressures put on them from their family and community. They also deal with ending careers and sometimes needing to take initiate in their new found role like Chris Comer. Being prideful in your team will always be a main thing in football, but some teams deal with more cockiness than others. I think football can be a great sport if we use a few of these compared themes from Friday Night Lights to just play for the sport and healthy competition.

	


