Word Versus Action
	Although “Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Auguste Radin both represent love, emotional perception, the background, and color are portrayed uniquely. These statues share a few characteristics, but on the other hand, they also contradict each other in the same way. Considering this, there are a myriad of ways for the viewer to observe and perceive these statues to find their true meaning behind the word love, an emotion with no clear comprehension amongst all living things. 
	At first glance, statue A shows off love as if it is something that can be seen and maybe even touched. For example, the statue is three-dimensional, and depth as well as length, states that love is something that can be physically felt. On the contrary, statue B tries to prove that love is an action that expresses the individual’s love for one another. In other words, the two are passionately gazing at each other like nothing else matters. Statue A is large in terms of size and meaning and it seems intentional so that it draws in more viewers. In other words, the statue is large, colorful and has an even greater meaning. However, the emotion of statue A is present but is lacking in potency. Meaning that statue A’s portrayal of the emotion is too modern, because in modern times “love” is nothing more than a word that the general population overuses. Contrarily, statue B takes a more contemporary approach to the emotion by focusing more on the act rather than the word itself because it would give more meaning and relatability to the viewer. For example, the artist spared no time in creating the perfect scene at which true love has been achieved by them; doing so with renaissance style sculpting. This proves that the approach was made to be more contemporary because the love in this peace is genuine and taken for granted unlike the modernized adaptation in statue A. Another interesting concept is how statue A makes love for all to observe, and unintentionally makes the term love more oblique and open for discussion. For instance, colors are vibrant, and the letters are large which would make it more noticeable, yet the citizens don’t seem to notice it at all. On the other hand, statue B makes this action more intimate and private, because it fully captures the intensity of love in its rawest form likewise inferring that this act is meant only for them to experience. For example, one can take note of how deeply invested the subjects are in each other and are shutting out anything that could be deemed a distraction from their love. One can ponder about whether love is meant to be interpreted as a word or an action.
	Another interesting subject where these statues have similarities and differences is within their unique background. In one way, statue A seeks to envision the sight of a busy metropolitan street draws more attention to its centerpiece with its common and seemingly uninteresting colors. For instance, the pedestrians appear to be in a myriad of clothing in a few colors such as green, white, and beige. None of them are dressed in any of the same colors as the statue, it almost makes them blend in with the concrete, practically invisible. In another way, it can also purposely attempt to draw a great deal of attention from the statue to the background to make statue a more noticeable to the viewer, this is done by purposely making the colors in the foreground considerably brighter than those found in the background. The backgrounds scheme in statue A can also be understood as more of a harmful distraction than a beneficial one. The background can be viewed as too frantic to know exactly what the observer is supposed to interpret for themselves. For example, the bustling metropolitan intersection is riddled with distractions such as pedestrians, vendors, and vehicles on the road. Like Statue A, Statue B’s background has elements that are likewise and contrasting to each other. Moving on, in Statue B’s background, it subliminally creates a greater sense of tension and seriousness around its centerpiece. This is because it has very little to distract its viewer; It only has dark colors rather than a bustling city street & pedestrians found in statue A. 
	Both statues have an interesting choice in the colors featured, the meaning behind the colors are open to interpretation. Each similarity and difference in color makes the statues unique in their own suit. Each color is ultimately the result of how the artist or artists decide how love should be seen or felt by the viewers, as well as provide depth and meaning to all that were used. Statue A takes on a modernized adaptation of the colors associated with love with the warm and cold colors seen and felt by those involved in a love or loveless relationship. For example, the statue features a bright red, as well as a deep shade of blue; the red could represent how love can be bright, warm and appealing to the eye, while the blue could represent the colder side of love in which many individuals experience with the phenomena of unrequited love. Statue B also represents the feelings of love in its choice of colors, however the meaning is more subliminal. To infer, statue B uses white to display its subjects and a mix of darker colors to overlay in the background and a few lighter colors that reside closer to the subjects. The darker colors could represent the dark and vindictive side of love because it can appear to be beautiful but in term be dreadful in nature, represented by the darkest colors furthest from the subjects. This could also mean that the further love goes into the darkness, the less it becomes love but something darker. While the lighter shades represent the more beautiful side of love, the happiness and future that love can bring if it’s experienced with the right individual. The statues colors are alike in representation, but contrast in terms of presentation and interpretation to the viewers of the piece. As stated above, statue A uses more modern colors seen by common people during their everyday lives, unlike statue B which used colors most would associate with dread and melancholy they may often or rarely experience.
To conclude, the similarities and differences found in “Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Aguste Radin make for many interesting subjects to discuss about their meanings and what it is trying to tell the public. Careful examination of both pieces concludes that the concept of the word love is open to many different forms of expression from many artists. To infer, statue A only depicts it as a big word used in public on almost everyone, while statue B takes a more literal approach by depicting the act of two individuals deeply in love. Each can have deeper discussion like how love can be seen and touched, to how it can be felt and experienced by the few who believe in it.