I Will Always Remember You, Joyfully 
Remembering my grandfather very joyfully is rough at some points in my life. I always 
want to think about how I could not see him that much.  He had many great characteristics that 
showed a limelight of what many more people should act in this world. Some of the great 
qualities is his kindness, humor, and joyfulness.  I will tell you how he changed my life. 
First, he showed a lot of kindness. He showed kindness to the rich, the poor, the young, 
and the old. He was nice to anyone who walked up to him. Even when someone was causing a 
fight with him he still was nice to them. He would go to the nursing home and sing and play 
guitar for anyone who was eating breakfast, lunch, or dinner. He would give people the shirt off 
his back if they needed it. He also used to deliver milk to people’s houses. He encouraged me to 
go on a mission trip and help those in need.  This past summer I went to Dominican Republic for 
my very first mission trip. I gave people fresh water, fresh food, and some clothes.   
Next, he had a great sense of humor. His humor soared through every room. He could 
make anyone laugh in any situation good and bad. He would always tell my grandma that he had 
another girlfriend. He would say,” Will you brush my hair? I want to look good for the nurses.” 
He would always joke around about making his own songs. He would tell me that we need to 
  
 
   
 
create our own band.  He inspired me to always joke about things because it makes everything 
seem okay.  
Last, he had a lot of joyfulness. He used to spread joy anywhere he went. Before he went 
in for major heart surgery he started singing Grandma’s Lye Soap. Before he died he would play 
guitar and sing for the family reunions. He lightened the moods of many people. If you were 
crying he would be there to comfort you in the time of need.  He taught me that no matter what 
someone has done to you keep them close. My grandfather made me a better person by teaching 
me joy. 
In conclusion, he changed my life for the better simply showing me humor, kindness, and 
joyfulness. He made me a better person. He always found humor in the hard times. He sang to 
me while I was upset. He held me close while I cried. He even let me lay beside him when I was 
scared I was going to lose him. He taught me how to be nice to someone who was hurting me or 
my friends. He would always call me every morning and night and say,” I Love You Sam!”  Many will never forget his smile and laughter. I Will Always remember You, Joyfully.