In America, many actors and professional athletes are paid millions of dollars. Many people believe that actors and professional athletes are over paid, but there are many reasons why they receive the amount that they do. People all over the world are one of the number one reasons why they get paid so much because they buy into these forms of entertainment. Just like any other career, these actors and professional athletes dedicate their life to their jobs. These people often have short-lived careers-meaning that their money has to last for the rest of their life. Actors and professional athletes are not paid too much because it is well deserved due to the attention they receive, their dedication, and short-lived careers. 
Actors and professional athletes are paid based on how much attention they receive from the audiences. According to statistics, approximately 92% of Americans have some sort of cable, satellite, or streaming service. Based on this statistic, it can be assumed that this is a major factor into actors’ and professional athletes’ salaries. People are why these actors and professional athletes make the money that they do, so people that watch movies or sports whether it be on television or live are helping contribute to the amount of money that they make. Therefore, if one does so, then they should see why or how they make the money that they do. Athletes and actors are paid what they should be because of all of the profits of their careers from apparel, televised events, movies, shows, publicity, and etc. After thinking about all of the profits made off of movies, television shows, televised events, live events, and etc one can see that actors and athletes are not overpaid. They have earned that money because of the attention that people give them.
Like any other career, actors and professional athletes have to dedicate their whole life to their career. The difference between a typical job like a doctor or a police officer and being an actor or professional athlete, is that being famous is a lot harder. They never get to have a so called “normal” life. Their whole lives after they are famous will never be like that of your typical middle class citizen. They will always have fans and papparazzi everywhere they go. Depending on the actor’s or professional athlete’s work schedule, they might barely get to see their family and friends due to all of the traveling that they have to do. Therefore, they are not getting to live a normal life, so by them making more money it might make it worth it for them.
Actors and professional athletes often have short lived careers compared to a typical job such as a lawyer or a teacher. Although everyone that works has to worry about one day losing their job and their income, athletes could get injured and their whole world be flipped upside down. All that they have known to do could easily slip away because of an incident that they most likely could not have prevented. Actors have to constantly worry about someone else getting the role instead of them. Actors are kind of in the same situation as a typical person in this scenario, but athletes are different due to the chance of an incident occurring and stopping them from doing what they love. Of course, an incident could occur to a typical person and they could be put out of work, but there is a higher chance of a professional athlete getting hurt depending on what sport they play because playing can get very aggressive.


It is often thought that actors and professional athletes are overpaid, but taking into consideration the things that they are giving up to provide entertainment to the world proves that they are not overpaid. They earn their money by taking the chances that they do. The world as we know it would not be the same without these people. People would not be able to have movie nights, binge watching show marathons, or gatherings to watch the game together. These things bring people together whether it is realized or not. Actors and professional athletes deserve every bit of what they are paid.
