Athletes and actors are incredibly over paid and it makes many people very upset. Actors and actresses do very little, yet get paid a lot. They do things for people’s entertainment, which to me, is not a job that should pay as much as it does. Others are paid quiet less for much more amounts of work being done. There are many more jobs that deserve to be paid more than athletes and actresses, they do not require much skill level, and they also have way too much extra money. 
Surgeons are one of the top paying careers and they still do not get paid anywhere near the amount that actors and athletes do. Actors get paid as much as 35 million dollars for only one movie, while surgeons get paid only 250 thousand dollars annually. I personally know how important surgeons are to us, from watching my grandmother battle cancer. She has had to undergo several procedures, and without surgeons, she would not be here today. Surgeon’s spend all their time saving people’s lives, therefore I believe that they deserve to be paid more than people that do things solely for people’s entertainment. 
In most jobs, people get paid accordingly to their skill level in a specific thing. Actors and athletes do have to have skill level as well, but I do not believe it is worth millions of dollars. There are many jobs that require far more skill level than that of acting or playing a sport. It is also not fair because you must be born with athletic ability or acting abilities. You cannot go to school to learn to be athletic or a good actor, and unfortunately it is very difficult to teach yourself to be athletic or to be able to act. Only a select few people are good enough for these jobs, so it is not fair to the people that were born without these abilities.
Lastly, actors and athletes get paid too much because they do not even know what to do with all the money that they have. I went to California last year and seeing all the bizarre houses made me mad. There are many people in America that are poor and living on the side of the road, while actors are living alone in a ten-bedroom house. There is no reason that actors should have houses or cars as nice as they do. If they gave a quarter of their salary to people in need, I guarantee that there would be way less poverty in America. I personally believe that a percentage of their salaries should be required to go to people in need.
Actors and athletes are extremely overpaid and there are many jobs that deserve more money for what they do than actors and athletes. These jobs do not require enough skill level for the money that they make. They also are very greedy with their money and purchase things that are not necessary, rather than helping the less fortunate. 