Narrative Essay 
Today's society views divorce as habitual. We are often submissive to the massive impact divorces have on children. For instance, numerous people hardly remember their childhood, but for this drastic transition in my life, I recall every detail of mine. Unlike most six-year-old children, I could comprehend most situations; but there were some that inflicted confusion upon me. On October 6, 2006, my life changed forever. My parents’ divorce shifted many things. 
At the beginning of the divorce process, I was still growing. I apprehended that matters were starting to change. I exhibited emotion and complexity. Although I was cognizant of what my dad had done, I could not grasp why. I would listen to my parents' quarrel late at night as I set in bed wailing my eyes out. Besides the hurt and rage, it was difficult for me moving from seeing my dad every day and having the same routine; to not seeing him for weeks. I became bitter, unhappy, and balked.
Eventually, the animosity toward my father disappeared when I grew older. I forgave my father. Even though I knew cheating was wrong, I did not hold it against my dad, unlike everyone else because I am a daddy's girl. I finally became unbothered about my father's choice, and it made me a forgiving person. The divorce also altered my perceptions about my intimate relationships. It affected me negatively and positively. I became less trusting of my partner because I saw what my dad did to my mother. However, it also made me recognize my worth as a young woman. I did not want to go through the same heartbreak as my mother. As a result, I established high expectations for my potential boyfriends. I also often questioned my ability to love. 
After the finalization of the divorce, my mom’s discipline method for her kids also changed. When my parents were together, the environment was rigorous because of my father. He demanded us to read every day, make high grades, keep the house cleaned, and we were not allowed to have boyfriends. However, when they separated my mother became more lenient of those expectations. Therefore; with me being the youngest child, I had more freedom than my sisters did when they were my age because I endured the stern environment the least. My sisters were not able to do some things I could do. I do believe that because I had more freedom during my high school years, I am more self-disciplined and equipped for college. However, my oldest sister can be more matured than my middle sister and I because she encountered the most time in the strict setting with my dad. Either way, we all grew into great kids.
Now, the divorce does not affect me emotionally at all. I may sound selfish but, I enjoy receiving separate gifts for my birthday and Christmas. I adore my dad’s current wife and although sometimes it’s hard being the mediator between my parents; I would willingly meditate if it anticipates them reconciling. I admire the extension of our family that the divorce has formed.
Though children have different ways of coping with the separation of parents; it’s usually more troublesome for younger children. Although my parents’ divorce was not an absolute horrible outcome for me, society should not be impassive and indulgent on the effect divorce has on children. Parents should be mindful of children before divorcing. Divorce should be a thoughtful process because many people suffer from the outcome. Even though there were many advantages and disadvantages to my parents’ divorce, I would not alternate my situation because it has taught me several things and also strengthen my relationship with my parents.
