At a lower point in my life, I was always bothered by an idea that stayed in the back of my mind continuously bothering me, the thought of having a boyfriend. Throughout my life, I have been shown through others actions that I do not and will not need anyone to depend on in my life as long as I stay focused on what I need to in order make my life the best I can for myself in this harsh and cruel world. Even my two best friends, Casey and Riley,  had the same mindset and we were all ready to conquer this world, just the three of us. Of course, we knew that things would eventually change as we were growing up, but we had a plan; we would all graduate high school together, move off to college, and all three live together throughout and even after college. I know not the ideal teenage girl dream because there were no teenage boys involved, but we had all been betrayed by the one man that supposed to be by our sides for our entire lives, our dads. We were all treated very differently and came from different backgrounds and households, but we all had the determination and wanted to be able to make it throughout life without any more heartbreak from any man. Not having a dad or father figure in your everyday life is very difficult growing up and does have long-term effects on one's life. None of us had any idea how we should be approached or treated by a man, but it was always a topic that we did not discuss because we had all came to a conclusion that if we had each other then we would be just fine.
    It was the beginning of the second semester of our sophomore year in high school and Casey and I started to notice some changes in Riley. We had this thing where if one of us made a new friend that person automatically became friends with all of us. There was this one girl that we had all known for a while and considered her one of our closest friends, Jaime. She was very pretty, had a great smile, most of the time you would catch her laughing, and just an all-around good people person, someone everyone enjoyed to be around. Most people referred to Jaime as a wild child that did whatever she wanted to when she wanted to do it. Jaime was also known for having many boyfriends and a different one every week, it was around the end of February and Jaime had found herself a new man and his name was Kerry. Kerry was from another high school right down the road from ours, but no one that we were friends with had even heard of this boy. Casey and I decided to start doing some research and we found out that Kerry was also known for having several girlfriends within a short amount of time, that he was known for getting what he wanted from a girl and leaving, and he was also the guy that every other guy that was in a happy relationship had to look out for because Kerry would be the one to try and take another’s significant other. Of course, we did not want to see any of our friends to be hurt, especially by a guy, so Casey and I approached Jaime and started to ask about Kerry and see how much she really knew about her new man. Jaime was clueless, she had no idea that Kerry was the complete opposite of what he had expressed to her. Kerry had put on a disguise, a pretty great one at that, he had lead Jaime to believe that he was an innocent, God fearing, church going, mamas boy that had never done anything wrong and treated every girl that came down his path the way they should be treated. It did not take too long for Casey and me to explain to Jaime what we had heard and seen from others and him , but just like any other teenage girl that believes that they’re in love, Jaime then decided that she was no longer going to associate with me and Casey until she got things sorted out. When she decided that she was going to stick with Kerry instead of being our friend we felt betrayed, once again we had been someone else’s second choice and a guy was pronounced the winner. 
    After a few weeks had gone by, there was still no word from Jaime, we would see her while walking down the hallways in school and sometimes in classes but there was never an exchange of words. She had chosen to go her own way, and we were not going to be the ones to chase her and try to change her mind. Around the begging of April, Casey, Riley, and I were all sitting at my house one afternoon after school just like any other day and Riley's phone started to ring. She picked up her phone and in big white letters “ Jaime” was running across the top of the screen and a picture of the four of us from the beginning of the year. Riley sat there and stared at her phone and started to ask us if she should answer it or not. None of really knew what to do because we were in a state of shock by the fact she was even trying to contact one of us. By the time the phone was about to ring for the last time Riley slid her thumb across the bottom of her screen and answered the call, “Hello?..”. Casey and I didn’t know what to expect, the last time we had talked to Jaime was when we were trying to tell her the absolute worse things about her boyfriend. Riley and Jaime were on the phone for a few minutes, but Riley was only listening and letting Jaime do the talking. She finally hung up the phone and told us that Jaime was about to be on her way to my house because Kerry had broken up with Jaime and he had told her that he liked someone else. While waiting for Jaime to arrive at my house we all had so many questions we wanted to ask and also things that we wanted to tell both Jaime and Kerry. Jaime finally got to my house and walked through the front door straight into my room and dove into the bed right in the middle of all of us and began to cry her eyes out. We let her cry because we had decided a long time ago that no matter who it is we would always be there for someone if they needed us no matter what the situation was. No questions were ever asked, we just decided to love on her even though we were her second choices, but this was not a blame game, it was a time that one of our friends needed us so we were there. Eventually, we had calmed Jaime down enough to be able to talk to her, but we let her do the talking, so we only found out what she wanted us to by telling us. She said, “Kerry said that he no longer had interest in her that he was over it and already likes someone else.” We were all so confused and wondering, “How could you go for liking someone and seeing them every day for three months to never talking or seeing them again?” ; but that was not out only concern, who was the girl that he had picked over Jaime? 
    A few days had gone by and things were back to the way they were before Kerry had walked into any of our lives, and we were all acting like it had never happened, except for Riley. Riley would constantly bring up the situation and sometimes even try to justify what Kerry did by saying it was a good thing he broke up with Jaime now and not later. I had noticed how Riley kept bringing up the situation but I never said anything, not until Casey asked me if I had noticed. After Casey and I talked about it for a while we had all types of different ideas of what could possibly going on. Did Riley already know Kerry? Is this all a set up to see what mine and Casey’s reaction would be? Did Riley like Kerry more than anyone else thought? Do Riley and Kerry have something secretly going on? Not too long after brainstorming about the fact why Riley is always bringing up Kerry, we had to ask. “Riley do you and Kerry still talk to each other?”, was the first and only question Casey was able to ask before all hell broke loose. Riley absolutely lost her mind and could not believe we had even thought that she would still be speaking to him after what he did to her friend. She was asking hundreds of questions about how we could come up with stuff like this and why we would ever even think that she would like Kerry, she was in denial. Riley did not like the fact that we were trying to figure out what was going on and she also did not like how we approached the situation, but we were only curious and not trying to start any type of argument. Riley was furious and went out to her car, Casey and I just continued to sit on my bed and wait and wonder. After a few minutes we went out to check on her and her car was gone. We had no idea where she had gone, so we began to call her phone multiple times but she never answered. So Casey and I decided to call Jaime and see if she had heard anything, but she was just as confused as we were. While Casey was waiting to see if Riley would ever answer or call back I decided to get on Instagram and find Kerry’s page and sent him a message that said, “ Hey I was just wondering if you have heard from Riley within the past thirty minutes or so because she was at my house but left and now she will not answer the phone? If you hear from her and do not care would you let me know, please? Thank you”. Not even two minutes later Riley called Casey and told her that she was on our way back and that we needed to be outside when she got back so we could talk and she was sorry. At this point, we were trying to figure out which one of the theories were true until she was there to tell us. Casey and I got up and put our shoes on and went outside, as soon as we were walking out the front door Riley was pulling back into my driveway. We walked out to her car and I got in the front seat and Casey got in the back and the very first thing Riley asked was, “Why did yall call Jaime?”. At the time we had no idea we had done anything wrong, but calling Jaime was really the last thing we should have ever done. Riley started to cry while trying to tell us what was going on, and at first, she was beating around the bush trying to not tell us until she whispered, “ I was the other girl Kerry was interested in… I was the one that he picked over Jaime… and now we're together.” Riley explained how when she first heard of Kerry she thought he was such a horrible person, but that when she was hanging out with Jaime and he would come over that they got to know each other. She said she knew she had made a mistake but she did not want Jaime to know anything, and Casey and I agreed to not say anything but we did tell Riley that if Jaime asked we were not going to lie for Riley, that we would tell her the truth.
    The next Friday, one week after we found out about Riley and Kerry, they showed up to our Friday night football game together.  Casey and I had seen a picture they had posted together on Riley’s snapchat story and so I text Riley asking her to come to see me and Casey and she never answered. We called Riley several times and never got a text or call back until three days later. When Riley called my phone that Monday it was the first time we had talked to her since the past week. Of course, the first thing I asked was where had she been and why was she no longer talking to the people who she had spent every day of her life with up until meeting this boy and he only reply was, “People change” and the sound of the phone being hung up on the other line. From that day on Riley and Kerry were together every single day and just like that our dreams of the three of us being friends forever were over.
      I will never truly know what words to use to describe how Riley made me feel when she decided that a guy she had known for months was more important than her best friend since the third grade. I was lost, broken heart, and felt betrayed once again because I was some one's second choice and a guy had been picked the winner. After a few months of soul searching with Casey by my side, I decided that I will always make sure that I'll treat people the way I want to be treated and that I will always respect other feelings, especially the people who have been there for me no matter what.