Entertainment, or a Monopoly?
There is a growing problem, and it's easy to overlook; actors & athletes, are they overpaid? They most certainly are; their public influence alone is infectious amongst the public. While portrayed to represent straightforward professions, the underlying truth is that they are quite actually huge monopolies designed to ween the public out of every penny. These individuals are overpaid because of their grand salaries, the growing demand for more, and their enormous influence on the public.
 The most pressing issue when discussing this matter, are the salaries that they are accumulating annually. The average salary for an NFL player is roughly 2.1 million dollars yearly; Top-tier actors are paid well over $200,000, which is absurd when compared towards the average American's salary of $44,000. Most citizens are struggling to make their ends meet on such an inadequate salary. It gets more alarming when compared to the President of the United States, who is only paid $400,000 per year. These elements are a pale comparison to how much of an impact the following subject has on the overall success of their career: advertising/endorsement deals. 
 The next following to discuss, advertisement/endorsement represents a critical factor when it comes to incentivizing the common people to buy into a product or service. It causes them to think that if they possess this item, it makes them more like the individual they idolize. For example, a professional golfer, Tiger Woods has an enormous lifetime endorsement deal with Nike, which brings in over 45 million dollars a year. This provides the company an opportunity to use him as a pawn to promote their products both to young and older audiences alike. Doing so grants them access to virtually an unlimited supply of revenue. Nike utilizes him for product placement to draw attention to their product. The upcoming device, advertisements, plays a factor in this ruse as well. 
 The aspects of advertisement/endorsement deals tie in with our final topic, using a well-known figure to use as a ‘face’ for their product or service. An example of this is how Hefty uses WWE superstar, John Cena to entice the audience to buy into their product. Intentionally targeting more juvenile audiences to coerce their parents to give in and buy. This multi-million-dollar deal increased their sales tremendously. Another indicative sample is Nespresso's use of a notable Hollywood actor, George Clooney to improve sales of their espresso machines. The company offered him 40 million dollars to represent the brand as an ambassador.
 To conclude, yes, actors and professional athletes are absurdly overpaid. The blatant disregard of the matter is utterly sickening, from the business practices to the audience they're targeted towards. The intricate pricing used to force customers to pay for the product doesn’t support their case. Society has grown into the trend to copy one another, rather than generate any form of originality; giving companies an opportunity to form practically legal monopolies over people's way of thinking. These companies take advantage of this distraction and prey upon those affected by the trend.