
There has been a complication between, if actors and athletes are paid too much or not enough. Are actors and athletes paid too much? Even with all the work they give themselves? In this case, they are paid too much. Firstly, the pay scale from professional athletes and actors to upcoming is not at all fair. Nor is the pay scale fair for other workers around the country. Recently, when it comes to fame, they worry about the money and only the money. As in the money are their way of life and the only way of life they may have. Lastly, due to all the money, all the fame and all the lights, we have lost so many beloved athletes and most actors due to this payment. Once again, money is not everything, money should not be the reason others are hurting and killing themselves over.  
The Professionals get paid so much, too much, as to where they need to start a pay scale for others and the professionals. If they were paid evenly and fairly, due to other jobs around, there would not be so many others in poverty. They even get paid more than those who are out there fighting for our country and saving lives. While the military and nurses are out there saving lives and making people feel safe and better, these professionals are protecting, well, their money. I took a poll and asked others how they thought about their pay scale related to professional athletes and actors pay scale. While twenty-seven percent of the voters voted that the pay scale was fair, another seventy-three percent voted that they are paid unfairly.  
When it comes to fame, it is all about the money and only about the money. The more money that gets, the greedier they become. Then later down the road, all they would ask about is getting money. They will beg for your money and beg for your views. Data has been collected that these professionals push aside the ones they love due to their love for the money and not the game. Sixty-three percent of these professionals throw away everything they had for the money – as documented in 2014.- Money, money, money, who wants more money? They do! 
We have lost many professional athletes and actors due to money and how it took over their lives. Professionals have come out telling that not even the fame and the money make them happy, that pushing everyone away and only focusing on the fame hurt them. Having money does not make you happy. It gives you what you want and what others do not have. Money kills people and ruins lives. No matter how much you want the money or they do, it shows that it is not all that too needed for life. And the greedier you are with taking the money, the greedier you are, the less chance you will have real love surrounding you.  
Professional athletes and actors getting overpaid is a big controversy around the world that, it is hard to choose if they are or not. These professionals get overpaid, they get all this money for what?  Just to play a game and rehearse a line? Some people may not agree, but it has still been proven by data collection and other professionals that they are overpaid and deserve a better pay scale compared to other hard workers. 
 
