Out of The Lime Light
Living a luxurious life style can make a person forget about simplicity. Of course, everyone loves the dazzling bright lights and constant time crunch, but for one moment go back and settle down out of the lime light. So what would it be like to take a million dollar to celebrity from New York City to a tiny little town? Maybe, living in the bright lights is not all it is cut out to be. Way down deep into the south there is a tiny town named Anytown, Georgia, this is where I was born and raised. I am going to bring the famous actress Barbra Streisand to my home town. 
Barbra Streisand one of the most well-known Broadway actresses has spent the majority of her life in NYC. She is familiarized with the energy of the area. Being from Anytown I am on a slower pace. The Big Apple always has something to do, whereas in Anytown you may do something once a day, but it is mostly family, friends, and living life out of the fast lane. This would be a major shift for Barbra. The energy level may be something you enjoy for a vacation, but long term she might get disinterested. 
A major difference in Anytown is the culture. Living in a large city, such as New York the is a huge ethnic pool. New York is more culturally diverse. There is someone from every place. In Anytown you do not have as many different people, because it is a small town. So there will be a major difference in the cultural norm. It could come as a culture shock to Barbara, who is used to the atmosphere and lifestyle of a more culturally diverse place.
One of the most major differences in Anytown than in New York City is the friendliness. The people in New York have somewhere to be and something to do. In Anytown you are not quite as busy so stopping to say hello or even just wave is a normal thing for us. Living in New York you never know the person that lives next to you. You do not make a relationship simply based on the common fact of the street that you live on. Barbara would probably enjoy the relationships you make and they happier you feel simply because if the nice people.
Barbara would most likely enjoy Anytown short term , but I can not foresee someone adjusted to the fast pace lifestyle being content with Anytown. I would love the opurunity to show her and explore all the simple things that living in a small town brings. The culture, people, and energy of living in a small town is something very different in the separate places you go to. Experiencing these differences is something everyone should get the chance to do. Barbara would love Anytown, but I can not see her doing everyday life, out of the lime light. 