Night Lights is a book written by H.G. Bissinger. It follows the Permian High School football team and their 1988 season. There is also a movie that is based on the book. The movie was produced by Brian Grazers and released in 2004. I have found that the themes of death, racism, and pressure are present in both the book and movie. Although, the book and movie both talk about the 1988 football season at Permian High School, some of these major themes are portrayed differently.
	Both the book and movie portray death when they talk about Boobie Miles career. Boobie suffered an injury in the 1988 football season which killed his career. In the book, Boobie stiff-arms a tackler and another tackler falls on his leg which caused his injury. In the movie, Boobie just took the tackle and his leg gets caught on a tackler that was already on the ground. While they both talked about what killed Boobies career, they portrayed the scene differently. 
	Through the story of the book and movie, racism was portrayed. In 1988, Odessa was still filled with racism. The book really went in detail of the comments that were made about blacks playing on the team. The book mentioned the quote “He should be shot like an animal” after Boobie Miles was injured. This showed that people only cared about his athletic ability and not him. The movie still showed racism through the story, but it did not show it in much detail because they made a deal with Permian High School saying that they would not portray the town in a racist way. They did this so that they could film at Ratliff Stadium. While both the book and movie talked about racism, the movie took out most of the racial slurs that were showed in the book.
	Through the book and movie, motivation was displayed in many ways. The book talked about how Mike Winchell’s father was on his deathbed, he told Mike that he needed to play football. However, the movie did not mention this during the story. The movie just shows us that the players are motivated through all the effort that they exert through the story.  In both the book and movie, the players knew that if they were not smart, football was the only thing that could get them out of Odessa, so they gave it their all for the chance of getting a scholarship. They were also motivated to get the ring that comes with winning the state championship.
	The book was very similar to the movie. It was sad to see the death of Boobie Miles career, but it was cool to see how this gave Comer the chance to shine. The players would have never realized their full potential if Boobie never got injured. I think that the producers should have kept the racism parts in the movie to show what Odessa was like back in 1988. They could have easily made the movie without filming at Ratliff Stadium. The movie should have showed the conversation that Mike had with his father when he was on his deathbed. It would have enlightened the viewer on why Mike was as motivated as he was. The movie did a good job on recreating the story that was told in the book.
	