                                                                                     
                                            Million Dollar Talent 
              Individuals all around the world, support and celebrate famous actors and professional athletes for their unique talents. Many individuals see not only their skill, but their wealth and dream of sharing their spotlight. However, when society places high values on certain skills, it undermines the hard work of other individuals who are just as talented in other areas. Many people wonder how the culture of praising one skill over another will affect the next generation. Three core issues arise when one considers the debate over famous actors and professional athletes being overpaid: this is not morally correct, they are receiving more money than anyone needs, and it sets a standard that is not healthy.
              To begin, some people do not see a moral issue with praising famous actors and professional athletes for their service of entertainment. However, if an individual wants to know what society values, they need not look further than who society showers with wealth.  On average, teachers bring home $55,000 annually, which is in huge contrast to LaBron James, a famous basketball player, who brought home 25 million dollars at the end of 2017. Teachers are entrusted to cultivate the next generation with knowledge, therefore, vital to our society’s success. The purpose of sports and acting is to entertain the population, not necessarily to move it forward.  When viewing this argument from this point of view, one may conclude that it is morally wrong for society to praise the entertainment industry over other professions that by nature better our society.
                  Next, many people believe that famous actors and professional athletes deserve to be showered with as much wealth as possible for their unique talents. However, famous actors and professional athletes make more money than anyone could possibly need. For example, Robert Pattinson, a famous actor and star of the hit movie series “Twilight,” brought home 25 million dollars for the two-part series finale, not including the 7.5% that he gained in gross revenue.  One can easily determine that Robert will never need that much income to live a happy and comfortable life. However, society continues to allow people in the entertainment industry to be showered with extreme wealth, while many government-run services, like hospices and public schools, lack necessary funding.  When viewing the argument from this point of view, one can conclude that famous actors and professional athletes earn far too much money because it is more that anyone needs, and that money could be used for better things.
                     Finally, many people see the praise of famous actors and professional athletes as a positive thing that benefits society because it gives young people someone to look up to. However, when young people look up to actors and athletes, they are also inadvertently looking up to the entire entertainment industry. This becomes a problem when young people become fixated on careers in the entertainment industry and have no backup plan to fall back on if their first option does not work out. The people youth should look up to are the people moving society forward: social workers, teachers and doctors. If those working as famous actors and professional athletes made less money, the entire entertainment industry would begin to make less money. Therefore, people would be less likely to fixate all their time and energy on careers in the entertainment industry. 
                  In closing, famous actors and professional athletes make a lot of money. Some people believe that these actors and athletes deserve to make this much money for their unique skills. However, this creates a moral issue, it is more money than anyone could ever need, and sets an unhealthy standard. After viewing this argument from both angles, one can easily determine that famous actors and professional athletes make far too much money. Money makes the world go around, but in this case, money makes the world go down.


























