Change in one's heart
					
		I grew up in Anytown. It’s a small town, about an hour away from Anyville. In Anytown, everyone knows each other, which wasn’t always a bad thing. When you live in such a small town you fail to realize that you are not invincible and that the world doesn’t revolve around you. I guess you could say I was pretty ungrateful and very unappreciative but let’s start from the beginning, shall we?
	Eight weeks after I was born I was adopted, I was saved from a potentially terrible living situation and placed in a loving home with such a loving family. I had two parents who loved each other dearly and a brother who got on my ever last nerve but who also had my best interest at heart. However, at eight weeks you don’t realize that you have truly been blessed.  So as I continued growing up I also became somewhat of a brat, wanting the newest of things and never saying thank you. 
	On February 29th, 2017 my whole life changed. I was woken by multiple phone calls that morning by my mother's friends. I was rushed to my dad's office in the heart of downtown Anytown, the car ride was silent, something didn’t feel right. I started making a list in my head of people who I thought could’ve been hurt or sick On that day. By the time we arrived at the office, I saw a lot of familiar tear-stained faces. I seat in the conference room and that’s when the world stopped turning, my dad told me that my mom had passed. February 29th was the day   I lost a part of my heart, my mom. It hit me all at once, I started asking myself, If I ever thanked her once, or if she knew I loved her.  At one point I thought it could’ve been my fault, that God was punishing me for being a terrible kid. I knew that I could never say thank you for the life I did not deserve.  
		I guess I just didn’t understand why at the time, I mean I still kind of don’t understand now, but she always said: “God calls upon some people because he really needs help and they are the only ones that can help.” That saying did help a little. I did learn that I need to be more appreciative of the people and things I have around me. To not live with regrets and to let your loved ones know what they mean to you. There has never been a day I haven’t said I love you to my family and friends. I always say thank you to whoever and no matter how big or small the act of kindness it. 
	These are the things we should live by each and every day, I hate that it took me till I was fourteen to realize this but I am glad I have realized it. My mom was a big part of my life and helped me become who I am, and for that, I am very grateful. When I lost my mom it really tore me up and all I did was look back on the bad memories instead of the good. I may not have gotten to thank her for giving me the best life a child could ever have but I can still thank my dad, because of the loss of my mom I always make sure to travel at least once a year, I always try to take every chance I get to show my friends and family how much I love them.  I truly am blessed with a life I don’t deserve, but I learned throughout my heartache to appreciate and love each and every moment of the life you were given.
	