As my alarm went off on a cold, dark Friday morning, I rolled out of bed and got ready for the day. Luckily, there was no need to dread going to school since cross country excused us so we could prepare for our state championship meet which was the next day. When I was ready, I drove to my high school to meet up with the cross country team. When I arrived, my teammate Ronald and I took a picture holding up the school record which was a nineteen minute and thirty-eight second five-kilometer race. The record was set by Casey Smith and we were determined to crush it. 
	Eventually, we got in a car with our coach and headed to the course. Upon arrival we got out and ran the course. While we ran, I talked about strategies and what lines to take on the course. The run was at a very easy pace and was intended to make our body feel loose. It also helped calming the nerves we had about the state meet that was tomorrow morning. After we got done with our run, we played ultimate frisbee for about an hour. Then when we got tired we ate lunch and got ready to leave.
	Once we were ready, we got back in the car and headed to our hotel room. When we got settled in we ordered pizza and alfredo noodles to stack up with carbohydrates. While we ate we watched a movie about the Olympic runner named Jessie Owens. The state championship course was named after him. After we watched to movie we went back to our rooms. Our coach told us that we needed to go to bed by eight o’ clock. However, we were having so much fun playing games we ended up going to sleep around ten o’ clock. We woke up around five in the morning and ate a light breakfast. When we were done eating we loaded up in our cars and got ready to leave for our race. When we neared the course, my heart began to pound, and I started to feel butterflies in my stomach. Although I was nervous, I was also confident in myself. When we arrived all my worries went away as I had finally calmed myself down. 
	As our race time neared, we walked up to the starting line. Forty minutes before the race I started our warmups. All our parents and friends watched as we prepared for our most important meet of the year. Next, our coach came up to us to say a prayer and wish us good luck. Before we knew it, the starter had walked out in the middle of the course with his gun. There was an eerie silence while we waited for him to shoot the gun. Bang! The gun goes off and we bolt off the starting line. Everyone started out fast trying to get to the first turn without getting squished by other runners. I could feel the wet grass through my slim racing shoes. Once we got to the first turn the course turned to gravel and became easier to run on. On the third straightaway there was two teammates from another team blocking me from passing them. I was on a mission to beat the school record and nothing was going to get in my way, including them. After a couple of attempts of passing them I finally shoved them out of the way and kept going. Halfway through the first mile my legs were on fire and I could barely breath. I felt as if the course was tearing me apart. I was starting to think that I was not going to be able to keep my pace. I knew that Ronald would be right there to pass me if I slowed down so I kept going. When we approached the first mile I saw my coach standing there holding her timer. When we passed she gave us our pace and encouraged us to keep going. Nearing the end of the first mile all our team was in one big group and Lane was trying to lead us. I could see that he was running out of energy, so I attempted to pass him on the inside of a turn. When I came up next to him he tried to block me thinking that I was on a different team and I accidentally tripped him. He almost fell and looked over to see who tripped him and gave me a weird look. I told him that I was sorry and kept going. After that incident I began to feel incredible. It was as if I was running on air. I was barely even out of breath. When we got to the second mile our team was more dispersed. Ronald and I were the only two runners that were up at the front. We approached two runners that were running slower than us, so we split up and attempted to pass them on both sides. When I got beside them I got tripped by the other runners’ foot. Time stopped as I began to fall in slow motion. Once I tackled the ground, I got up in a hurry. I passed the guy who tripped me and caught up to Ronald, but my heart rate had skyrocketed, and I could not keep my pace anymore. I slowly began to fall off pace as I watched Ronald disappear into the distance. I knew that he would get the school record and all I would get is a couple bruises. Once I passed our teams tent where all the parents were looking at me with confused faces, knowing I should be at or near the front, I realized that this was my last race and that I worked three years for a record that I could never beat. I came across the finish line one second quicker than my previous personal record.
	As I came across the finish line I was filled with anger. I wanted to find the person that tripped me and give him a piece of my mind. I was blinded with hatred while walking back to the tent. Once I got there I sat down on the ground with my head in my arms and did not say a word to anyone. I was so mad that I could not keep my hands from shaking. When our coach announced that Ronald had beaten the school record by thirty-two seconds, I began to cry uncontrollably. A few people noticed and gave me a hug, but none mattered more than my coach. She came and sat down with me for a few minutes. Her hug made me cry more but it made me feel better. It was by far the weirdest emotion roller coaster that I have ever been on. I choose to look at the positive in everything. I took this experience as motivation to become better and keep running to try and beat the new school record.

	