Actors and professional athletes are some of the highest paid people in society today. They are paid millions of dollars each year just to throw a ball or read a script. These actors and athletes are paid more than most of the people in the nation. They are way too overpaid. Honestly, I do not agree with it because they make more than military personnel, they can be negative influences on our youth, and their roles in society do not matter that much.
 One reason I do not agree with the salaries of actors and athletes is that they are paid more than military, educators, and first responders. Actors and athletes do not give up their time to educate, help, and protect our youth. They are paid to entertain them. That role, in my opinion, is far less important. Military personnel risk their lives every day to protect the rights and freedoms of our nation. However, after they are done serving many of them become homeless. First responders also risk their lives whether to a fire or other service calls. Yet, many get a second job to make ends meet. Teachers spend thousands of hours teaching our youth and making sure they have the skills necessary to be successful, but the national average for a teaching salary is only $38,617. That is far less than actors and athletes.
 Another reason I think actors and professional athletes are overpaid is they are paid to taint our youth with negativity. There are many actors and athletes who are negative influences and teach our kids the wrong way to be. Some athletes disrespect our nation's flag by kneeling during the national anthem. I understand that it is part of their Constitutional rights to do that but, in my opinion, it is disrespectful to our fallen veterans and current people serving in the military. By them doing this it is showing our youth that it is ok not to care about our military. Then, in turn, what will happen is eventually the United States military will die because we will have a nation of men and women who do not find it necessary to serve and protect. They feel this way because they were influenced by these athletes and actors who stand against the military. I also feel like many athletes and actors are too vulgar in the media. I understand that vulgarity in movies is necessary but, in social media is not. It will taint the youth and now we have nine- year old boys talking about sex like they are twenty-one.
 Lastly, I think actors and athletes are overpaid because they do not matter honestly. What are they contributing to our society? A few good movies and some cool sports highlights? They do not matter in my opinion. One of the most important figures in society is the teacher. They wake up, they go to work, and they teach our youth and they help in creating the future business leaders and politicians. They give them all the knowledge and tools they need to be successful. But, they are underpaid so much. They deserve so much more than what they earn.
	I do not hate actors and athletes, I just believe that they do not deserve what they earn. There are other occupations that deserve more, they should get more than what the actors get. They are the ones that put in the most effort. They are the real hero’s not the actors. Nor the athletes.