“Those that can’t, coach.” In other words, those that can not anymore, live vicariously through their children. In the small rural town of Odessa, Texas, the pride of a winning football team has become the town’s obsession. The success or failure of students, coaches and parents is reliant on the high school football team’s state championship record. This makes the present situation and future endeavors challenging for the characters in both the book and the movie. 
Sometimes,  a dream does not always turn out as planned. Although it is shown all throughout the book, the movie gives us much more depth on the way the parents treat their kids. Charlie Billingsley is living through his son, Donnie Billingsley. Charlie goes above and beyond to tell Donnie how much of an embarrassment he is to him. The movie gives a brief scene of Donnie getting physically abused by his father for not living up to, his fathers idea of, his full potential. Although the book does an excellent job on backgrounding the characters, the movie shows us the emotions of the players and parents by their facial expressions. Personally, I thought the harassment would just be a father to son problem but, that is not the case. Scenes in the movie show Mike Winchell being obviously pressured into acting like he wants to play football. The football players are debatably forced to play the game. 
	Everybody has pride in something. In the city of Odessa, the majority of the town’s pride comes from the Permian Panthers. The Panthers have won multiple State Championship football games year after year. The adrenaline of winning is addicting throughout the town. Even the city sheriff’s are putting pressure on the coach to win that state game, shown in the movie. The alumni take pride in their championship rings also, which brainwashes them to take desperate measures to harass Coach Gains. The One of the facts the book states is that the Head Coach makes approximately 60,000. As a high school coach, that is a load of money. It was also stated that the grounds keeper gets paid more than most teachers. I think that that everything about the movie made it clearer to us viewers about the amount of pressure these boys took on due to the town’s pride. All of the state titles hanging up in the beginning of the movie show that the players have to be reminded of that one big game every day of their lives. 
Escaping Odessa, Texas is a challenge. There was not much money revolving therefore, the chance of making it out is tight. There are about two escape methods to get out of that city, one being getting recruited for a sport, and he other being getting a academic scholarship and going to college. The football players in the book are said to be average, or below average students. None of the players took honors classes which made their chance of academic scholarship slim to none. There was one student however, named Brian Chaves, who was one of the smartest students in their grade. He was the only football player that has a chance of getting out of the town if football did not work out. There was one character, Billy Winchell, who left the city and his family behind. He was not shown in the movie however, Billy was talked about in the book on many occasions. He left his brother, Mike, at home to take care of their sick mother. We can make the conclusion that Billy is running from hiss past and does not want to stay in Odessa forever. 
Football has evolved over many years as shown in the movie and book of Friday Night Lights. The pressure and passion for the game always remained the same. The players put up a front to just try to make it through their lives and have a chance at a future. Although parents in the city were living through their children, pride was high, and players were trying to escape the town, it does not take away the fact that all the football players in the book and the movie were treated poorly. 
