
Narrative Essay
Since I was fourteen I had dreamed of being a teacher. I knew there wasn’t really any money in it, but I could have a nice standard life. I’d go to school and further my education even after I acquire my degree and a career. I wanted to be a secondary science teacher and eventually become a professor at a university. My passion for this was because of my love of science and really just because of the school atmosphere. For the most part, everyone is polite and typically there’s no major issues at school. But my desire to be a teacher changed. I’ve decided that I want to be an engineer, and to say the least, money was not what shifted my future.
It was my senior year of high school. Everything was going great. My GPA was rising, I was taking every ACT I could, and I was filling out multiple scholarships. There was one scholarship in particular that I wanted: the Casey Smith Memorial Scholarship. The requirement to obtain this was to write an essay, and to pursue a degree in education and or secondary education, with a main focus in science. It was the perfect scholarship for me, as it was exactly what I wanted to major in. I spent weeks working on this essay. Although it was only worth $2,000, I put my blood, sweat, and tears into this essay. My lovely English teacher, Mrs. McCoy, one of the only teachers I could just sit down and talk to, helped me out of the goodness of her heart. The amount of passion I had given this document was the writing equivalent of Denzel Washington’s character in Remember the Titans. I wanted to pursue a career where I could help kids better their education. I wanted to make them want to learn. I
wanted to change lives. I wanted to make a difference. The essay we had written was a
masterpiece, crafted by myself, and the finest writer one would ever meet. It was as if God himself had sculpted it with a golden quill. I knew the other applicants, and I knew their writing abilities, and I knew that I was going to be the number one applicant. Then came awards night.
As I was sitting in the audience, waiting patiently for them to announce the recipients of the Casey Smith Memorial Scholarship. The night drew out forever. I had a program and found where they would announce the scholarship I wanted. Finally, the lady took the podium. I was nervous yet excited all at the same time. She announced what the scholarship was about and how to receive it, and then she called out the names. I patiently waited for her to call out my name, but alas, she did not. My heart had stopped. I could feel my chest tightening with every breath I took. I felt my eyes start welling up and my mouth become dry. My body was filled with shock and misbelief, all with a hint of denial. “It can’t be, I showed nothing but truth and passion in this essay”, I thought to myself, “was I not good enough?” I wondered. I was broken. Everything I had worked for was gone in an instant. The two people who were selected weren’t even going to be education majors. One wanted to be a librarian, and the other wanted to be a physical therapist. Both of them had lied on their essays. Of course, I was infuriated. I slandered the recipients, the scholarship, and even my teacher who had taken hours of time out of her life to help me. I felt betrayed, at best.
After a month had passed, I had finally graduated, and since I was eight-teen I was able to land an internship at a hydraulic cylinder manufacturing plant in Arab called Hyco. I made fourteen dollars an hour running a marvel horizontal saw. At Hyco, they also taught me a lot of trades, such as: grinding, polishing, and how to execute the best finish. They also taught me how
to work a vertical crane and a forklift. My productivity remained over one hundred twenty percent, my bosses and managers came over to check on me to see how I was progressing, and they gave me lots of good compliments on my work. I enjoyed my job as a laborer, but I wanted more; I wanted to be a leader. Naturally, I am a very good leader. I’m smart, I’m charismatic, and I earn my respect. I met up with some engineers and people in the higher up part of the business, and they gave me a little more insight as to what I would be doing in a position like that. They showed me how to read basic blueprints and how the business worked. Not to mention this career is an almost guaranteed six figures.
I was very happy that I did the internship with Hyco, and so I plan to do another one this summer, whether it’s there, or at another industrial company. I would enjoy learning more about these industries and eventually I would like to work my way up to be the C.E.O of one of them. I believe that everything happens for a reason, and so maybe it’s a blessing in disguise that I didn’t get that scholarship. Perhaps I was meant to do bigger, better things than be a teacher making not a living wage, but a surviving wage. Maybe instead of influencing my students to do their best, I was put here to lead my future company to success. Maybe I wasn’t meant to do either. The only way to find out, is to believe in myself and give it my best shot.
