Comparison and contrast essay
In the course of human events, love is a term that is controversial on what exactly it is and the effects it has on society. Some may argue that the care parents show to their child is a representation of love, while others may argue that the discipline a parent shows to their child is also a representation of love. It is also debatable which people in society should we love and is showing too much love a positive or negative. Although, “Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin are both visual representations of love, the color, symbolism and setting in both sculptures differentiate their approach of what defines love.
In Robert Indiana’s sculpture, we see the word “LOVE” in vibrant red with blue outline. We commonly associate the color red with the feeling of love, since a child usually seeing pictures of red hearts and even during the holiday season the color red is commonly associated with love. The mental effect of seeing the vibrant red with a dull colored background is important because it makes us question the value of love’s influences on everyday life. Does the vibrant red make us overvalue love’s influence or does it make you acknowledge the influence of love on society. This sculpture is also being displayed in the middle of downtown traffic. This is significant because of the focus on how should love be applied to everyday human interaction. Is holding a door for someone behind you a representation of love or simply common courtesy? Should love be exclusive to family and friends or should it be given to everyone in different ways? This sculpture has a bigger emphasis on the mental aspects of love and how it truly affects our society. Could an example of love for society be simply throwing trash in the trashcan? In that sense, love should be applied to everyday human interaction.
In Auguste Rodin’s sculpture, we see a male and a female, who appears to be sitting on a rock, kissing. Their skin and a hair all beige, which has places emphasis on the mental approach of how colors make us feel. The lack of vibrant colors makes us focus more on the details of the art, instead of the idea it’s trying to portray. The act of kissing is a physical representation associated with love. Is the love that’s expressed by kissing different than the love of a parent disciplining their child? The physical expressions of love have unlimited variances which makes defining love so difficult. One might even debate that the display of too much love in public is disturbing. The artist’s choice to not display this sculpture in a public setting like in “Love” is notable because of that. The debate on the exclusivity of this type of love is also more controversial than the simple everyday love for our planet or society. This love is more commonly displayed in private rather than public which raises the question of how is too much love a bad thing? This sculpture focuses more on the physical realms of love and those limits that it has.
The subjectivity of love is displayed through both of these sculptures and is the most prominent difference in both of them. In acting in a kind and civil manner, love is an influence. While exclusive in private, love is what brings us together publicly as societies. In order to fully understand love, you must be able to recognize the different areas it has effects in. That is what differentiates the purposes of these two sculptures.
In our everyday lives, we are faced with decisions that question our ability to love.  In order to truly define love, we must also acknowledge its advantages and limitations. These two sculptures give you different visuals or perspectives on what society defines as love. Even if you refuse to accept one or the other, you cannot refuse to influence love has on you.
