
Compare and Contrast

	The Art World is has a big contribution to society. It expresses feelings, thoughts, stories and more! Art is everywhere, from the socks on your feet, to the midnight sky. Art may consist of architecture, paintings, interior designs, and even sculptures. Two of the most famous sculptures are, The Kiss, by Auguste Rodin and, Love, by Robert Indiana; these two sculptures have many similarities and differences, including their meanings, mediums and focal points. 
	Every piece of art has a meaning and a story behind the works. The Kiss illustrates the 13th century Italian Noblewoman Francesca da Rimini, who was in Dante’s Inferno, where she falls in love with Paolo (Granger, 2011). Fun fact, Paolo was Giovanni Malatesta’s (her husband) younger brother. The famous Love sculpture was basically a farewell to Indiana’s father. When his father passed he remembered the sign of Phillips 66 gas station, since that is where his father used to work. He took the inspiration from the green and red for his letters, and used the background in memoriam of his father (Finkel, 2018). He also made the sculpture to say “God is LOVE.”  Both of the sculptures stories deal with love and affection. The Kiss was about a woman falling for her husbands brother, while Love was about love for his father and God. While both sculptures had two very different meanings and stories behind them, they also had the similar theme of love.  
	Art uses different kinds of mediums, like acrylic paint, newspaper, even yarn. Mediums are the materials used to create a work of art. The medium that Rodin used for The Kiss was Pentelican Marble, and the medium Indiana used for Love was Cor-Ten Steel. Pentelic stone is made from quartz, graphite, mica and pyrite. Cor-Ten Steel is made from copper, nickel, chromium and solanum steel. Both Pentelic Stone and Cor-Ten Steel have iron oxide. Both sculptures have used a different medium, but the materials inside them, that make the mediums that they are, have similarities. 
	Lastly, are the focal points. In art, there are places that just stand out more than anything else on the work of art. The beautiful sculptures have that “X” that marks the spot. For The Kiss the focal point on this sculpture is the head tilt that the man in the sculpture is doing and how his mistress is tilting hers. It shows the love and passion that they have for one another and just how beautiful the sculpture is. For Love everyone can agree that the tilted “O” is the focal point here. Some say that the tilted “O” is slanted to the “V” to where the “O” is supposed to represent the males anatomy and woman’s uterus. Others just say it was just something different Indiana wanted to try. Whilst both of the sculptures are very different they still have a focal point that just pops out of the whole work of art. 
	Art is one of the main aspects in life. Just like these sculptures there are differences and some similarities. Not all similarities are very noticeable but, there are still things in common with every work of art including The Kiss by Auguste Rodin and Love by Robert Indiana may have. Robert Indiana and Auguste Rodin have made beautiful sculptures. Where their similarities come from their meanings, mediums and focal points as do their differences. As mentioned, while there are different types of art there may still be that one thing that they may have in common.




Works Cited
Granger. “Rodin: The Kiss, 1886 by Granger.” Fine Art America, 6 Feb. 2011, fineartamerica.com/featured/rodin-the-kiss-1886-granger.html.
Finkel, Jori. “Robert Indiana, Who Turned 'Love' into Enduring Art, Dies at 89.” The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 21 May 2018, www.seattletimes.com/nation-world/robert-indiana-who-turned-love-into-enduring-art-dies-at-89/.


