Sometimes in life, things that seem like they may ruin your life end up saving it. As some people would say “we do not see the forest through the trees.” I have a deep belief that the challenges and struggles we face in life are what mold us into better, more complete human beings. If we never faced any adversity, we would not see a reason to change. During my whole high school career, I only saw myself as one thing, a musician. I felt that my only contribution to the world we live in was as musician and one day as a music educator. A life changing event that would ruin music for me in high school, something I thought would completely prevent me from serving my purpose in life, ended up making me realize that I am so much more than a musician.
	Let’s begin with my junior year of high school. I was already a proven saxophone player, 1st chair of my school and the marching band President. My success with music was driven by my passion for it and I knew very well at this time that I wanted to be a music educator one day. I was 16 years old around this time and had arrived at a point where the only thing that mattered to me was my band classes. I was missing out on so many experiences and friendships because of my dedication. Right about this time, at the start of my junior year, I received the biggest wakeup call of my life. I was a good kid, but I had a little secret few people knew about. I was an occasional weed smoker at the time. Being said, a month into my junior year I am called up to the front office and have no idea what is coming.
	When I walk into the front office of my school I am greeted by that stereotypical front desk lady you would see at any school. She asks if I am Sam Doe, and then informs me that I have been selected for a random drug test. The way in which she said this was just as sweet as anything she had said before, but to me it sounded as cold as a judge giving out a death sentence. I pictured every part of my life that was going to be ruined as I sat in the cold wooden chair outside the nurse’s office. I went home that day knowing I had failed and that my band positions were in jeopardy. I did exactly what I had to do at that time, which was confess to my mother and let her know before someone else did. That was one thing I had learned in life, when you know you’re in trouble go ahead and confess. Don’t be fooled, telling her myself was still one of the hardest things I have ever had to do.
	When my mom came home from work that night she could immediately tell something was not right with me, I was usually a talkative person most of the time, but I was not saying a word that night. That was until I finally broke down and confessed the situation to my mother. This was the moment when I received a much different reaction from my mother than I had expected, she simply said, “Everything is going to be okay.” I cried to her about what I feared to lose, and she calmed me and told me to pray about it, as she often would. I took my mother’s advice this one time and changed my life. I really reflected and saw that I would be okay without band, because my true cause in life is to help people anyway I can. I had always thought it would be through music, but it did not have to be. I also realized if I was going to help others, I needed to be in a good place in my own life. At that moment I had decided it was time to be more involved in my church and every class I take. I had decided to do everything I do in life to the best of my ability, this completely changed the way I live. The question is, what was the cost? 
	In the coming months, neither me nor my mother heard anything about the events of my failed test. I have in fact never heard a thing about it from anyone to this day. I never had to give up music, but my life was still changed. I wanted to be a music educator before, but I was not going to be a good one because of the way I was living life. This event has turned me into a person that strives to be great at everything I do and to be the best person I can be every day. It was an extremely terrible experience for me, yet it turned me onto the path that brought me here where I am today. I am now a Marching Southerner, and a music education major in college, and I am now learning what life has in store for me. All of which wouldn’t have happened because of this experience. If I had been able to see through the trees at the time, I would have seen this wonderful forest.