Football > Life
“Friday Night Lights” is a story that takes place in a small town in West Texas around 1988. This true story shows many hidden, troubling aspects of this small football-obsessed town. Although it may seem like it, Permian football was not the only thing the book and the movie both emphasize. Throughout both the book and the movie, you see many themes and see how these different themes affect the characters all throughout the book and movie. My attention was very quickly brought to the idea of how obsessed these people in this tiny community are with football and how much pressure is placed upon these 17 and 18-year-old kids, while the idea of death in this town was easily looked over but played a huge role in this story.  Obsession, pressure and death are all three themes that we see throughout both the book and the movie. 
To begin with, Permian football was the most important thing to most of the people in this town. Although, the obsession did not stop with just the idea of football, this town and community always let the current football team be reminded of what belonged on their fingers after the season was over. In the movie, we see several scenes where older men, who we assume are former players are almost coaching coach Gary Gaines in a way and telling him what he should be doing this season. The former players were constantly flashing their rings and never let coach Gaines forget who “ran the town”. We see a different way obsession is shown in the book with Permian football through a gathering they call the watermelon feed. The watermelon feed allowed the community to meet the team and get to know the players. The book tells us “about 800 persons crammed into the Permian High cafeteria by the time the watermelon feed began”, this shows us just how obsessed this little town in Texas was with football. We see in both the book and the movie where football is not the only obsession in this town. We see how Boobie Miles has a fan base full of many Permian football fans that wear his jersey, but we also see where he is obsessed with himself. This obsession comes from pride and confidence that has built up over his football career, which will shortly be taken away from him.  
Another reoccurring theme we see happening all throughout both the book and the movie is the idea of pressure. In the movie, we are faced with a scene where Charlie Billingsworth a former superstar of the Permian Panthers and the father of Donnie Billingsworth, physically takes out his anger on his son, Donnie. He is shouting and hitting Donnie's hand while verbally attacking Donnie and his football abilities. We do not see this exact scene in the book, but we do see other pressuring moments. A specific moment we see in the book is when the boys on the team are faced with a mysterious note. The note stated previous facts about Permian football and the success the program has made, but how this year's team is not on track and has not shown what it is to be a Permian Panther and at the very end the note states they will soon be on the sign that says “!!!LOSER!!!!” with the 1986 team. This note was obviously very discriminating and negative towards the players, but the intent was to pressure them. This type of pressure was shown not only in this scene but all throughout the book. We see in both the book and the movie that the coaches, especially coach Gaines are under extreme amounts of pressure. The community is constantly pressuring coach Gaines and threatening him based upon their winning streak.  
Finally, a theme that does not necessarily stand out above others but has a huge impact on the people in this little town of Odessa, is the idea of death. In the movie, we do not see or hear about Mike Winchell's dad dying, but we see that he is not there. Therefore, we see his mom taking over and doing the things a dad would do with their son. Death is brought more clearly to our attention in the book when we see Mike in the hospital with his dying dad and his dad tells him to go to school, but we know he truly means that Mike needs to go to school so he can play football. This part of the book shows us physical death and how Mike uses it to push forward in his life and succeed despite the reasons he has not to. Where we see death in both the book and the movie is the death of these boy's football careers. All these boys know, is football, and they have used football to get them everywhere in life thus far. Although we don’t see physical death among these football players, we just see their futures begin to die. These boys have nowhere to go now and cannot play football anymore, therefore this part of their lives has died.  
In conclusion, the different themes throughout this book are very evident to the story and the meaning behind the story. We see how the movie and book portray all three themes but use different aspects to portray them. Throughout the book and the movie, all the characters are faced with struggles and problems, but in my opinion, we see in both how they overcome and accomplish many things together as a football team and a community. 