My Favorite Things Together  
	If I had the opportunity to bring someone to my favorite place it would be Maya Angelou. I would take her to my favorite beach called Windsea in my hometown of Anytown, California. Maya Angelou is a phenomenal artist who has inspired me to be a better overall human. Also, she’s visionary and author that has written multiple books about being a black woman in America. I would take Maya Angelou to the beach because I want her to experience the Windsea beach, I want her womanly advice, and I would like to ask her questions about the material in her poems and novels.
	Firstly, I picked Maya Angelou because she has a beautiful soul and has a different way of expressing her emotions and environment. Windsea Beach is the calmness beach in Anytown. Windsea is a very beautiful beach that exerts levels of peace. In order to fully enjoy this beach you must be calm and one with nature. The beauty of the beach and it’s view would really impress Maya Angelou. She has the perfect amount of calmness and nature appreticate to truly enjoy this beach trip.
	Second, Being with My idol would call for a real heart-to-heart conversation.  As a young woman, I feel like having a conversation with someone who is older is a vital part of being an adult. I feel that she would give me the best advice as a black woman because I look up to how she carries herself as a woman. Maya Angelou is known for having a deep powerful conversation with people that influence them for many years. 
	Finally, I adore Maya Angelou which makes me a fan of her work. I have multiple questions about the different things she talked about in her novels and her life. I would mainly ask her how she built up her confidence, strength, her rough childhood, and being a teen Mom who follwed all of her dreams. Maya Angelou was involved in so many movements and important events like the Civil Rights Movement and the Nelson Mandela freedom protest in South Africa.  I think its interesting how she went through these eras as a woman. The conversation would give me hope as a woman to have strength in everything I do in life.
	In conclusion, I feel that picking Maya Angelou to go with me to my favorite would be amazing to me because I would gain knowledge from someone who I looked up to growing up as a young black woman in American. Talking to her anywhere would be fine with me as long as I get to have a conversation with an icon like her. Windansea beach and Maya Angelou are both my favorite things in the world it would be a dream to have both things at the same time.