	It is often said that high schoolers make some of the greatest memories during spring break. My senior year was supposed to be the best one yet. Our baseball team waited eagerly to participate in a tournament in Anytown, Alabama. With baseball, the beach, and my teammates, we were sure to have the time of our lives, right? We were sadly mistaken. Spring break did not at all go the way I expected due to unfortunate events in my hometown.
	The start of the week was perfect. Sunday morning arrived and it was time for my family to load our belongings into dad’s truck. We enjoyed breakfast together and then travelled south for the week. After six long hours on the road, we could smell the salty air. The atmosphere was better now, and the road signs read, “Anytown, Alabama”. This is my family’s favorite vacation spot, so we were all thrilled to have finally made it. We vacation in Anytown each year, but this was the first time I had the opportunity to play baseball there. My parent’s checked into their beautifully decorated condominium and then dropped me off to stay with the team. We spent the entire night team bonding and enjoying our time together. 
The next day we were awakened early to play our first game. While travelling to the field, a terrible thunderstorm began and rain poured down. The game was delayed until seven o’clock P.M. We patiently waited all day. When we finally arrived at the baseball field, our families and friends were sporting their navy and gold to support the team. I never imagined one night could impact my future so much. While playing the sport I love, a tornado was tearing my home to shreds. The fans knew how bad the storm was back home, but they withheld this information from the team so we could finish the game with clear minds. The neighbors called my parents to inform them of the damage done to our house. My family had only been at the beach for twenty-four hours and would be leaving soon. 
On top of that, my father had to drive all through the night. Their return to what was left of Anyville at five-thirty A.M. was utterly shocking. Fortunately, I was able to stay with the baseball team to finish the tournament. My coach promised my parents he would take care of me and bring me home safely. The rest of that week was honestly a blur and all I wanted was to be home with my family. I wanted to witness what was left of the house I grew up in that held so many memories. My parents assured me that it would turn out fine, that I should not worry about it while I was playing baseball. 
The remainder of the trip I was uneasy, but my teammates and coaches were extremely supportive. Other teams in the tournament were informed about the tornado and collected donation money for the four players directly affected by the awful storm. We made the best of our week in Anytown and grew closer than ever while on this trip. After days of waiting anxiously, Friday morning came, and we loaded the cars to travel home. We were shown pictures of our town, but none of us knew what to expect. The rubble in Anyville left me in awe. Photographs did not do justice to the unbelievable damage; I quickly learned that we had a long, difficult road ahead. On Saturday morning the coaches, players and teammates helped clean up tons of debris at my house. 
All things considered, this experience made me more grateful for the friendships baseball has given me. Each day since the tornado, my family has worked hard to get things back to the way they were, and we are currently living in a rental house while waiting for our new one to be completed. My spring break did not turn out as planned. It actually ended up being quite tragic. However, I learned that the city of Anyville is a spectacular place to call home. The tornado destroyed so much of this town, yet it brought so many people together. I have been inspired by everyone’s hard work, compassion, and love for others through this catastrophe. Life is not always as we expect it to be, but I am certain that each event takes place for a reason and helps define who we are. 