Compare and Contrast Essay 



             Love is portrayed in so many different ways but have the same meaning. “ The Kiss’’ by Auguste Rodin and “ Love’’ by Robert Indiana both share some of the same meanings but have more differences. Robert, created his sculpture that displays the feeling of romance while in contrast  “ The Kiss’’ which is built to show the physical feeling of sexual romance.  In this essay, you will be informed of the differences in their landscapes, physical location, unity with love,  history and the similarities of “ Love’’ by Mr. Indiana and “ The Kiss’’ by Mr. Rodin. 








    The sculpture “ The Kiss” and “ Love” are contradictory in their landscapes. The colors of each piece are different.  “ Love” is designed in contrasting colors that which is significant to the artist own life. “ The Kiss” is a marble sculpture it embracing a couple exchanging their first kiss.  Another contrast of the sculptures would be their physical location. “ Love”, location is New York, and various different place which became a symbol and a reminder of a human emotion.  “ The Kiss” is an exhibit is Musee Rodin in 1919 that originally represents Paolo and Francesca from Dante’s Divine Comedy, and this art is usually behind closed doors. The last distinction in the pieced of art will be their unity with love.  The definition behind the “ LOVE”  is “ Everything is relating to my own life” - Robert Indiana. At the time of the creation of  “ Love”, his father had died in 1965 who raised him as a Christian Scientist which taught him that “ God is Love”.  On the other hand, “ The Kiss” is a piece of art portraying an image of sexual love. Even though the landscape of each portrait are detailed, they are certainly contransing in a sense of  how people might enjoy the pieces. 

   The history of the two artwork, gives the viewers a true definition on why it was created. “ The Kiss” represent the sexual desire of a man. A kiss, not an orgasm is why he called the “The Kiss” a large knick knack. The sculpture also represents adultery, which is why it’s represented behind closed doors. The history behind “ LOVE” represents biblical reasoning. The sculpture was a tribute to his father who died; which the red and green colors came from the Phillips 66 where his father worked while the blue resembles the sky of his home state Indiana. The history defines why a person has taken action into their creations. 


However all of the opposing matters taking place in “ The Kiss” and “LOVE”, both arts have somewhat similarities. The similarities between the arts is that both portray the meaning of love. The word love from both sculptures defines that love still exist through lust, intimacy, and joy. The two artists through their artwork both have the idea of making love, depending on the interpretation of the viewers.  Love can be defined in many ways, but there is always a kiss in love. 



  In conclusion, the meaning of both arts is symbolize is determined by the viewer.  Even though the landscape of each portrait are detailed, they are certainly contrasting in a sense of  how people might enjoy the pieces. The history defines why a person has taken action into their creations. Love can be defined in many ways, but there is always a kiss in love. Only Robert and Auguste can declare what their art truly mean. 

