Ford, a brilliant inverter that changed the lives of many. Ford changed the world when he invented the Model T which was the first affordable automobile. With this invention he lowered travel times tremendously and made people more connected. Ford also helped in the process of inventing the assembly line which is still in use today. This invention is what made the Model T so affordable. I would want to bring Henry Ford back to life to take him for a ride in a brand-new mustang on Mt. Cheaha and show him how much of an impact his inventions have made on the world. 
	It would be splendid to take Henry Ford for a joyride on Mt. Cheaha and show him the different styles of cars that his company is making. I could show him how much cars have improved since 1947. I would show him the top speeds of his car. He would be impressed on how safe the cars of today are. Mr. Ford would be amazed when he saw the value of his company. I am almost certain that he would be happy with how his company has turned out.
	I would make sure to take him to a Ford plant and show him that the assembly line is still in use. He would see that it is used by almost every company that produces mass amounts of products. I would show him that the assembly line is used around the world. I am sure he would be overwhelmed of how he contributed to something so important. Hopefully, he would begin to see how much of an impact he has made on the world. 
	I hope that I could learn from him during this experience. Since Henry Ford is such an intelligent person, I would ask him a lot of questions. He would most likely be very annoyed with all the questions that I would ask. I would ask him questions about how to become a successful business man like him. Just sitting there listening to him would be such a wonderful learning experience.
	Bringing back Henry Ford for a joyride to show him how much his company has changed the world would be an honor. I am certain that he would be proud of his company. Mr. Ford would be overwhelmed with the value of his company. It would be worth it just to see his reaction of the assembly line still being used today. Showing Mr. Ford how much his company has changed the world would be such an awesome experience. 
	
	
	
	