
	



	When I was 6 years old I lived in New Jersey. My family and I were close with our neighbors and we would always be outside doing something. There were people of all age ranges so my siblings and I always got together to have fun after school and on weekends. On one summer day, we were all outside playing basketball and everything was going great and normal. While at the time everything seemed fun and exciting, little did I know that this would be the day where I almost drowned.
	It all started on a hot and bright summer day in New Jersey. My siblings and I went to our neighbor’s house to hang out outside. My neighbor’s names were Casey, Riley, and Jaime. Everyone was playing basketball except me because I was cooling in the shade watching them. The basketball goal was in front of a brown fence which split our neighbor’s house and the adjacent house. Everything was going normal until Jaime shot the basketball into the top right corner of the goal, causing it to go over the fence and into the adjacent house’s inflatable pool which had a thick green cover over it.
	The fence was about 6 feet tall so it was easy for the older kids to jump and see where the ball went. When they saw that it was on the covering of the pool they lost hope and went inside since no one had an extra ball and we were not acquainted with the people living in that house. After about 10 minutes, my 15 year old neighbor Riley and 16 year old sister Kerry came to me and asked me if I wanted to help them get the ball back. Since I was young and easily influenced, I agreed to help them. On the other side of the adjacent house, was a fence door that led to the pool. They told me to get the ball from the top of the pool while they watched me and made sure no one was coming.
	Then, Riley and Kerry opened the fence door for me and I quickly made my way to the pool which was on the opposite side of the house and a good distance from where Riley and Jaime were watching me. The pool was inflatable, filled with water, and about 5 feet taller than me. I  could not climb it so I needed a way to get on top. I noticed that there were brown wooden stairs leading to a platform beside the pool, but I would have to jump from the platform about 3 feet to get on the cover of the pool and then walk towards the basketball. I made my way up to the platform and looked at the pool, which was about 5 feet tall and filled with water. I did not know how to swim but assumed since I was 6 years old and weighed low that I would safely land and the thick covering would not move or break. Being a kid, I did not realize that this was a bad idea and jumped. When I landed, the part of the covering that I jumped on broke and I sank into the pool.. My whole body was falling into the water but before my head went in I was able to extend my arms and hold on to the covering that did not break. I was holding on but was losing my grip fast, causing my head to slowly sink into the water. Riley and Kerry noticed and were running towards me from the other side of the house. By the time that they got to me, my head had been underwater for about 5 seconds.
	Finally, they pulled me out of the pool and we all went back home. The ball remained in the pool and no one attempted to get it again. It took me a while to recover from what happened and I was terrified for the whole duration of the day. We did not tell anyone about what happened until a day after when Kerry and I told our parents. Riley also told her parents but we did not tell anyone else. This experience caused me to be scared of pools and swimming for a long time. A couple of days after this incident, all of my neighbors and siblings gathered outside again to hang out. Everyone eventually got bored and then Jaime asked something that surprised me. Jaime complained about how he was bored and asked if anyone wanted to try and get the basketball back.
	