Representation of LOVE 
These two sculptures are alike and different in several ways. These sculptures are both symbols for the same thing, love, they are just portraying them in different ways. By looking at these sculptures, it is evident what they stand for. Both are symbolizing love and both provoke a warm, loving feeling when you look at them. It is quite amazing how two objects that are total opposites can represent the same thing. 
One specific difference between the two sculptures is how they look. The Kiss by Auguste Rodin is a sculpture of a man and a woman in the middle of a passionate kiss. Love by Robert Indiana is a large sculpture of the word LOVE painted red. Even though these sculptures are completely different to the eye, they essentially mean the exact same thing. Love is something that can be shown in an abundance of ways, and it means something different to everyone. To some, it is showering their significant other in extravagant gifts. To others, it is a simple kiss on the forehead or a sweet note. These two artists are both portraying love in different ways, but the warm feeling we as humans get when we look at both of the sculptures is the same. 
Love by Robert Indiana can represent tough love and how love isn’t always “lovey-dovey” and affectionate; it can be difficult at times. This sculpture can represent the love between a mother and daughter. The Kiss by Auguste Rodin shows the other side of love. It shows the kind, gentle, romantic side of love that most people dream about having. This sculpture can represent the love between two passionate people who are in enamored with each other. Although love isn’t always like the movies, everyone in life has the opportunity to love and be loved by someone. Even if someone has never experienced love personally, they can identify it in everyday settings. We as humans crave to be loved, and that’s why I believe both of these sculptures make people feel a certain warm, fuzzy feeling when they look at them. 
Love by Robert Indiana also represents how love isn’t always steadfast. Love can fade and chip away, just like the red paint on the LOVE sculpture, if it is not with the right person. Being in a relationship with someone who is not right for you can chip away your self esteem and self worth, just like weather and erosion can on this sculpture. The Kiss by Auguste Rodin is made of marble. This represents the steady love that will never fade. This is the love of family and of your one true love. This is the love that will stand the test of time and though it may not always be easy, it is forever. 
In conclusion, both of these sculptures portray love, but two different types of love. One shows hardships and difficulty, and that not all affection that is shown to you is true love. The other shows raw, genuine love; that of family, friends, and the person who some call a “soul mate”. In my opinion, everyone experiences both of these in their lifetime. These sculptures are so unique in their own ways and can mean something different to every person who looks at them. 


