Comparison & Contrast Essay 
Although the two sculptures, “Love” crafted by Robert Indiana and “THE KISS” sculpted by Auguste Rodin, represent the idea of love- detailed colors, bleak backgrounds, and bursting emotions establish the greater complexity of the subjective meaning of love. The diversity of love is established due to the feelings, perceptions, and knowledge extracted by one’s experiences. Because America’s ideal of love is appeal driven, society today has solidified its individualized interpretation based upon desire and the plastered social media photos, striking magazines, and graphic movies. Many similar and dissimilar subliminal notions or postulations could be drafted from each model.
In the sculpture “Love,” the bright colors illustrate the proposal of love as if it is being featured. Although red is a color commonly connected with feelings of love, it is also associated with passion, strength, and power. Meanwhile, blue correlates sadness; however, it also often symbolizes trust, loyalty, and serenity which are frequently named attributes of “love.” In this sculpture, the vibrant colors welcome the versatility and flexibility to perceive love in a plethora of ways. Though Rodin’s piece appears to be morbid in color, beige represents dependability and calmness, whereas burgundy indicates supremacy and puissance. Despite the distinguished color between the two works, they still portray the same peculiarity. 
Both “Love” and “THE KISS” have quite saturnine backgrounds, however, the desolate background of “THE KISS” is assumed to be intentional. It's intricate, stark details were the focal point of the developer. This suggests that the visual aspects of this piece are up to the imagination of those viewing the work of art which leads to be in a museum or on a display of some type. Similarly, Indiana’s work is displayed for those around it to view and take away what they choose. Even though both images are meant to be exhibited, the backdrop of the art “Love” is much livelier, yet those around it seem to be remotely detached and oblivious to its existence which takes away from the overall effect of the piece. Indiana's work juxtaposes Rodin's in that its background delimitates from the piece, though they both are bland and secluded in color.

The emotions evoked by each work are very abstract. Each sculpture allows different effects based upon how a viewer feels towards the work. In the sculpture “Love,” emotion is broad in which the audience can perceive love as they see fit. On the other hand, in the art “THE KISS” the viewer can create a story just through the name of the piece. There are numerous ways one can interpret this kiss rather it be the kiss of death, adultery, new beginnings, etc. This sculpture gives a physical and erotic concept of love. In both works, emotion has the liberty to freely revolutionize through the minds of many. However, in the work “THE KISS” the idea is more unequivocal in which the idea of love is more somatic rather than subliminal.
In conclusion, the main characteristics of the sculptures (“Love” and “THE KISS”) are both related and unrelated. It all comes down to how much the viewer is willing to investigate each work, ask why, and conclude. Both Indiana and Rodin have obvious ideas of love; however, their portrayals of the noun are far different. Indiana pushes for a more social appreciation of others love. Meanwhile, Rodin's idea has a much more physical connotation.


