If I had the opportunity to bring someone to a place special to me, it would be Rihanna Fenty. Barbados is special to me because it is where my family is from. I would bring Rihanna to Barbados with me for three, particular reasons. Rihanna is the cultural ambassador of Barbados, she shares a passion for feminism with me, and she is blessed with a musical talent. 
Firstly, Rihanna's title as the cultural ambassador of Barbados is very important to me, because my family derived from the city of Bridgetown. Unfortunately, they left in the early 1960's without any records or a reason for leaving. With Rihanna's help, I feel that she could help me find some of my family members who are still in Barbados. She could also aid in providing documents and history on my family. This would greatly contribute to my knowledge concerning my family’s history and culture. 
Secondly, Rihanna is a hardcore feminist which is the main reason she was awarded the Harvard Humanitarian Award. This is important to me because I am also a feminist. In today's society, women are still disrespected. Rihanna has experienced this disrespect in the form of slut-shaming because she is a celebrity who portrays sexual content. Although this is seen as shameful to the morality nuts of society, her music is an art to women. It illustrates an illusion of feminism and important messages about the lives and feelings of today’s women. 
Finally, Rihanna's most famous and important feature is her musical talent. She is a worldwide, "Class A" artist, and entertainer. This is important to me because I also have the talent of singing and Rihanna happens to be my favorite musical artist. Her music portrays a style that combines the genres of reggae, soul, and pop. This is a unique and rare style of music that she has mastered and owned. 

She would help me to intake more information on my family history and culture. I could possibly take my musical talents to the professional level with her help. Because we share so many characteristics and the same culture, I would be comfortable with her help. Rihanna inspires me to be different, independent, and to be a leader for women of all ethnicities and ages. With her help, I would be all that I was made to be!

