In August of 1988, the whole town of Odessa, Texas was getting ready for Permian football to start. The small town in West Texas did not look forward to anything like they did for their season to start. Permian football was all they could talk about and was one of the few reasons many people decided to stay in the small town of Odessa. They had one goal in mind and that was nothing other than to win the state championship. “Friday Night Lights” shows us many themes all throughout the book and the movie. It shows us obsession, death, and how the parents live through their children. 
In the book, the town of Odessa had something called “The Watermelon Feed”. The Watermelon Feed was where the whole town gathered into the school cafeteria and they were introduced to the 1988 football team. The lunchroom was packed full of people wearing Permian’s football color, which was black. The town was so obsessed with Permian football that the J.C. Penney had even made MOJO handbags. However, in the movie, they did not include The Watermelon Feed. That did not take away the fact that the movie showed how obsessed they were with football as well. In the movie, it shows children running down the road with the number “45” on all their backs. Number forty-five was Boobie Miles’ number and all the children had fantasized and obsessed over being just like him one day. In both the book and the movie, it shows how obsessed with football the whole town was and various ways. 
Another common theme that the book and movie share is the idea of death. In the book, it shows Mike Winchell’s father on his death bed and he is talking to Mike. His father tells Mike that he needs to go to school, which implied that his father wanted him to play football at Permian High School. In the movie, death is perceived in a different way. It is shown in how once the season starts, the players and the coach's lives were basically over. Once the season started, they had to eat, sleep, and breathe football and they all knew that. All of their days would be spent practicing because their goal of a state championship ring was not going to come easy. Although the idea of death was different in the book and movie, they both represented the end of something.
Finally, one of the biggest themes throughout the book and the movie, is how the parents live through their children. In the book, it was not only the football player’s parents that lived through their children. The Pepettes, who were the cheerleaders for the football team had also suffered from their moms trying to live through them. Their moms pressured them to become Pepettes just like they were when they attended Permian High School. In the movie, a huge scene of someone’s parent trying to live through them was when there were scouts at Mike Winchell’s house. The scouts were talking to Mike about their school, and Mike’s mom asks if they are offering Mike anything and tells the scouts that he would be glad to attend their school. The book and the movie both show how pressured the parents made the children feel and how they tried to live their life through their kids. 
In conclusion, the book and the movie had several similarities and a few differences. We see how the different themes come together and are shown in both the book and the movie. All three of the themes, obsession, death, and how the parents lived through their children show how their lives revolved around Permian football in Odessa, Texas. I believe these three themes strongly affected how the characters viewed high school football. 