We all have lost people in our lives. This is a devastating yet true fact. Because of this fact many people wish they could bring someone back into their lives after their death. Personally, I would bring my Granny back into my life as she tragically lost her life last October. I would show her things such as my new family who took me in, my University, and my wonderful girlfriend who she never got to meet. 
My Granny was very much the head of the family, so when she passed away my family fell apart. It was to such an extent that I had to move-in somewhere else. I moved into a new household where they took me with open arms. I believe that if my Granny was alive today that she would want to know I was being well taken care of. She would love to see that even without her, one of her grandchildren stayed loved and cared for. 
Another thing my Granny found very important was my education. She always wanted me to go to college and be successful. She motivated me to continue my education and this is one reason I am enrolled in college in the first place. She would appreciate such a wonderful school and such a wonderful community. I believe she would be in awe at the beautiful environment and how well taken care of I am here.
Despite me and my girlfriend being together for over 2 years, my Granny never got to meet her. My Granny definitely would appreciate how great of a person my girlfriend is. She would be happy knowing that another person is also taking care of me and making sure I'm happy as I do the same for her. My Granny was always big on relationships and marriage and I know that she would greatly care for the lovely person I am with and would accept her into the family.
Although bringing someone back from the dead is impossible it is still something great to think about. It keeps the memories alive and really makes you think of your own life as well. My Granny may be gone but I know she would be happy with how I am doing now. She would appreciate all the love I receive and I know she would love my University. Bringing my Granny back is just a thought, but it really goes to show that if she was back she would be happy knowing her grandson is doing well. 
	

























	
