Narrative Essay
Becoming a Christian and dedicating myself to Christ was one of the most life changing moments I have ever experienced. I really professed my faith and turned my life around at Shocco Springs. Seeing people my age be normal young adults whilst still being a Christian really moved me. Living and working at Shocco Springs the entire summer opened my eyes on what true dedication is, and how on fire for the Lord people could really be. 
My summer started two weeks before school let out. I got to leave Anytown High School early thanks to seniors finishing classes earlier than the rest of the school. Not even a week after I got out of classes, I moved to Shocco Springs for a free living, three month job. I worked for a group called, Resident Summer Staff, where the center hires on forty plus teenagers and young adults to work behind the scenes at the camp. As a group we were not only there to work and sleep, we had bible studies and worship nights as well. Being at Shocco the first week allowed me to experience how to “do it all for the Glory of God” and what it is all about.  
The entire summer revolved around working for God’s glory and bringing people to faith through the jobs that we had there. Thousands of children and adults came with either their camps, churches, or conventions and spent days on end praising and serving the Lord. I worked in the housekeeping and laundry department, where when each group left I would clean the rooms and refresh them with new sheets and scrub the bathtubs. This is not the most pleasant job but ultimately, I knew why I was there and who I was working for. Getting to know the people in my department and the other thirty students brought me an awareness of what a group of God loving people could look like. 
The nights that we had bible studies introduced me to how much the people at Shocco cared about our spiritual walk than the amount of work you got done for them. We not only had study nights with the group, we also had project nights where we would go to a school or an elderly person’s house and work for them.  Once we went to a school and we cleaned out their attic, pulled weeds, and redid their landscaping for them before the school started back up. Simple acts of kindness like this helped push me to be a stronger and motivated Christian. The other forty people I lived with all had their own back stories and pasts but had turned their lives around and working at Shocco showed me that I could too. 
Keeping in contact with the people I worked and lived with at Shocco in the start of college has helped me stay accountable for what my top priority is and is helping me stay focused. The greater meaning of working there was not for the money but for the glorification of God in all that we did as a group and individually. Working at Shocco changed me for the better and has softened my heart for people and spreading the gospel. 



