The opportunity to bring one person anywhere would be incredible. I would choose to bring my brother, Casey Smith, back to Anytown. He loved our hometown and the people in it. He attended Anytown State University, graduated with a criminal justice degree, and became a police officer in Anyville, Alabama. Casey’s life ended tragically in the line of duty on August 25, 2011. Casey’s return would bring my best friend home, let him see present-day Anytown, and allow us to enjoy another fall Saturday. 
First, it would be wonderful to have my best friend and mentor back. I was only ten years old when Casey was killed, but he taught me new concepts daily. He coached my football team and was able to instill valuable life lessons to each of the players. As young boys, we looked up to him and all wanted to grow up and be like Casey. He was the guy that everyone loved. Oftentimes, I find myself wondering what life would be like if he were alive. He was a caring, loving, and kind brother that I want so badly to spend more time with.
Casey would be amazed to see Anytown today. Sadly, the house we grew up in does not exist any more. The March 19, 2018 tornado destroyed it. Therefore, he would only see where our new home will soon be built. The storm was a tragic event that changed our lives forever, but Casey would be proud of the hard work and unity shown by everyone to rebuild his hometown. After showing him around the new Anytown, we would enjoy a meal together. Our favorite place to eat was Jefferson’s. We shared a love for their lemon pepper chicken wings. He took me there often, and I am certain that is where he would eat, given the chance to do so. 
Finally, I would share another fall Saturday with Casey. We both believed that football season was the best season. Many times we found ourselves outside throwing the football or watching Alabama’s team play on television. Our favorite days were those that Anytown State played at home. He always brought me to tailgate and enjoy the game with him. While attending ASU, he was a member of the Delta Chi fraternity. He met lifelong friends in this organization and is still honored by them each year during the Casey Smith Memorial Golf Tournament. If I had the opportunity to bring him back to Anytown, I would ensure he got to spend time with his friends and family.   
Deciding who to bring to the special place I call home is an easy choice. Casey loved this city just as much, if not more, than I. There are countless activities in Anytown that we would do if we had one final chance. I would cherish every second with him, realizing that time is too precious to be wasted. Oftentimes we take for granted the people and opportunities presented to us. Casey’s death taught me a great deal. I wish terribly that he were here to see the man I have become and to experience this extraordinary life with me.  