Although Robert Indiana’s sculpture “Love” and “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin are both about love, how they showcase it, the emotion they give off, and the intended audience of each sculpture make them both unique and, also very different. Both sculptures showcase a type of love in two different ways that make their audience feel something while tying back to the main concept of love, which in the end is what both sculptures are mainly about. 
When you look at both sculpture’s you can automatically tell that they are both about love but you can also see that how they showcase it is very different. The sculpture “Love” is a big sculpture of the word love written in red letters while the sculpture “The Kiss” is of two people kissing made out of a stone type material. The sculpture “Love” showcases love by simply displaying the words in a bold way so you can not miss it and does not make you think in depth about it. It showcases love by reminding its audience of the word and letting them think about what love means to them in a simple way. “The Kiss” takes a little different approach to show love by making their audience think more in-depth. The sculpture showcases love in a more subtle way by having two people kiss which is known as a gesture you give to someone you love. While not having the word love written on the sculpture you can still tell that these sculpture showcases love by the gesture the two people are doing and, in the end, makes its audience think about love just like the sculpture “Love” does. 
Both sculptures give off the emotion of love but, they give off two different types of love. The sculpture “The Kiss” gives off the emotion of vulnerable and romantic love not just love in general. It is of two naked people kissing so it makes its audience think of their significant other and how they love someone the same romantic way as the two people in the sculpture do. It also makes its audience feel the love in a vulnerable way because the two people are completely naked and that is a vulnerable state to be in and most people would not do that unless they were with someone the truly loved. It overall, makes its audience feel the love in a romantic way instead of just love in general so they connect their emotion to one person and not everyone. The sculpture “love” gives off more of a simple general type of love that relates to your friends and family, while it can give off the emotion of romantic love the sculpture primarily focuses on love in general and does not single out one type of love like “The Kiss” sculpture does. “Love” puts off the emotion of love in general so the audience can connect their emotion to more than one person and it can be all types of love which is up to the audience to decide. While both sculptures give off the emotion of love in two different ways they both, in the end, come back to the basic meaning of love and wants their audience to feel it. 
Since both sculptures are both generally about the love you would think their audience would be the same but they too are different. “The Kiss” sculptures audience is more towards an older crowd as you have to think more in depth about what this sculpture means. It’s about romantic love which more adult audiences can connect to than younger audiences. The sculpture would connect more to older audiences since they are more likely to have experienced the romantic love that the sculptures displays. The “Love” sculpture is more towards your everyday audience since anyone can relate to the piece and be able to take something away from it. Children to adults would be able to enjoy the simplicity of the “Love” sculpture and be able to feel something from it. Although only mature older audiences will be able to get the full effects out of “The Kiss” sculpture and be able to appreciate it both sculptures just want their audience to feel something and they both overall do that. 
As you can see the Love” sculpture and “The Kiss” sculpture are both very different as they are intended for different audiences, both showcase love in two different ways, and one gives off love in a general way while the other focuses more on romantic love, yet they have one main thing in common and that is the overall idea of love. In the end, no matter how different they look or the type of love they make you feel they both go back to love and want their audience to feel it in some way. 




