Narrative Essay
In life everyone thinks they have all the time in the world, but that is just a myth. I grew up, as well as many others of my generation, taking a lot of things for granted. The one thing i took for granted the most was time. I thought that i would have all the time in the world, but i was wrong. On August 6, 2015 I lost my grandmother. Some of my favorite memories are with her. One of my all time favorites was when we went and got McDonald’s after she picked me up from school.
	No matter what i could always count on my Nana to pick me up from school. She was never late. This particular day was a pretty rough one for me. I had a bad day and just wanted to get home. From the second I sat down in her pearl white Kia soul, she knew something was wrong. She continually asked me what the matter was and I told her it was nothing everytime. She then drove off from the school, but in the opposite way from our home. I asked her where we were going, but she would not tell me. 
	Next thing i know, we were pulling up at McDonalds. Nana asked me what i wanted, but I told her that I was not really hungry. She then proceeded to pull up to the drive through anyways. The young lady asked what we would like and my Nana ordered two large sweet teas, our favorites. Nana proceeded to tell the lady that was all we would be getting and got our total. 
	After receiving the total we drove around to the first window to give them our money. Nana handed the lady our money and the lady closed the window to get her change. As the employee opened the window and stuck her hand out with change Nana floored it to the second window. The lady left at the window stuck her head out in shock. Nana stuck her head out of the car door and yelled back that she did not want all those coins to just be added to the bottom of her purse. The employee just started laughing and stuck a thumb up in the air. I just looked at Nana and I busted out laughing. We got our sweet teas and laughed the entire way home. 
	Now thinking back i wish i had had more laughs like this one. I am so thankful for the times I had with her and all the times she made me laugh when I did not even feel like smiling. Always appreciate the time you have with people, because you will never know when it will be your last.