Book vs. Movie 
Friday Night Lights is a book written by H.G. Bissinger that was published in 1990. The book was written about a football obsessed town in west Texas called Odessa. After much controversy about the book revealing how extreme this high school sport was to the people of Odessa, a movie was made in 2004. Although the Friday Night Lights movie is based off the book, the themes of tradition, race, and death contribute to the differences between the two. 
	There are traditions throughout the Friday Night Lights book and movie. The book explains the roles of pepettes in chapters 7 and 8. Pepettes are girls that are assigned to a football player for the season. The girls are to bake goodies, make signs, and basically be their football player’s biggest supporter.  The book goes into detail about the traditions of pepettes making signs to put in front of their player’s house, putting candy in the boys’ lockers, and baking goodies and to give to the boys on games days. In chapter two of the book there is the yearly tradition of the Watermelon Feed. The Watermelon Feed is during the preseason of every year. It is the first time the players are introduced to the people of Odessa. Several times throughout the movie, there is a wooden sign displayed in front of a house with Permian colors and a number on it. This contributes to the assumption that the placement of a sign in front of a player’s house is a tradition. Though it is assumed that it is a tradition, it does not give a back story and what the purpose of them are or who made them. In the movie it also is never showcases the Watermelon Feed, even though in chapter 2 of the book it is a big tradition that hundreds of people attend. The tradition that is shared by both the book and the movie is obvious throughout each. Football itself is the greatest tradition in Odessa. In the book and the movie, local shops and businesses close early to attend the game. Thousands of people pack into Ratliff Stadium just to watch the Permian Panthers play football. Tradition is displayed throughout the book and the movie, but football is the biggest one they share.
	The theme of race also plays a huge role throughout both the Friday Night Lights book and movie. The book goes into detail about race and segregation within the town of Odessa. It goes so far to say how many blacks there were in the school compared to how many there were taking honors and AP courses. There is even a chapter titled “black and white”. The only black Permian coach says that his race only feels accepted in Odessa, but not welcomed. The theme of race is also in the movie, but it is filtered a more than it is in the book. One of the biggest race battles within the movie is during the final football game between Carter and Permian. The carter players were portrayed as an inner-city school full of thugs and foul play. In reality, they were a middle class, Primarily African-American school who were not known for playing dirty. Both the book and the movie deal with racism towards whites. In the locker room before the first practice, Boobie Miles talks about how black is prettier and better. Boobie also puts Waterbug down for wearing white shoes, so Waterbug takes a black sharpie and colors in his shoes. That is just one example of how race plays a huge role in the book and movie.
	Finally, the theme of death is a reoccurring theme throughout the book and movie. In the book there is Physical death. At the beginning it explains that Mike Winchell's father dies and while he is in the hospital, he makes in very clear to Mike that he must play football and go to college. In the movie it never elaborates what happens to Mikes fathers. In both the book and movie there is figurative death. An example of this figurative death is when Boobie Miles is injured. The injury to his knee is the death of his high school football career. Another example of figurative death in both the movie and the book when the athletes of Permian graduate. After most of the athletes graduate, they never become successful again. In high school everything was given to them and they did not have to work towards anything, so they are unprepared once they leave their haven of Odessa. Most of these graduates end up staying near or around Odessa, working brainless jobs, and living paycheck to paycheck. High school is as good it gets for these people. Their graduation is the “death” of all good things in their lives. 
	The book and movie Friday Night Lights both share the themes of tradition, race, and death. The theme of tradition adds to both by showing just how important football is to Odessa. The people of Odessa are so consumed with the traditions that come along with Permian football, when it is time to enter the real world they are not prepared. The theme of racism shows that Odessa is stuck in a time warp. The people of Odessa were not welcoming to the desegregation laws. They were only welcoming to the black athletes because they felt that they could help the football team go to the state championship. Finally, the theme of death plays a role in the book and movie. It deals with physical and figurative death. Death deals with the fact that along with football comes death. Mike’s father was concerned about football on his death bed, and Boobie’s life goals, which involved football, were put to death by the sport itself. These three themes are showcased throughout the book and movie and contribute to how they are both alike and different. 