	Most people would probably say that both actors and professional athletes are paid an excessive amount of money. They may feel that other jobs are more deserving of the number of money professionals make. Actors, on average, make about 60 dollars per hour in the motion pictures and video industries. A professional athlete’s salary averages between 317 thousand dollars to 6.2 million dollars a year depending on what sport they play. A lot of people do not realize what actors and athletes have to accomplish to get there. Professional athletes and actors are not overpaid because they have worked for it, they provide entertainment for everyone, and make personal sacrifices.
	Actors and athletes have to work hard to get into the big productions and different major leagues. Many famous actors have gone through rejections time and time again. They have had to continue working and practicing, even if it meant a 15-second commercial until they reached their goal. Even when the actors did reach their goal, they had to continue to work just as hard as before. Professional athletes have to work their way up as well. Majority have to start playing sports early in life, go on to college, and then get drafted. Even after the professional is drafted they have to continuously train and prove their worth.
	Television would become nothing without these athletes and actors. Both actors and athletes not only entertain one area like America, but also the whole world. Seventy-two percent of the world watches sporting events. According to statistics, Americans are watching an average of 7 hours and 50 minutes of television a day per household. These statistics show how many people around the world enjoy entertainment from these professionals.
	Athletes and actors make many sacrifices for the entertainment of the world. For some roles, actors have to lose weight or gain weight in a certain amount of time affecting their health. Also, athletes push their bodies to the absolute limit affecting their health as well. They both also have to make the sacrifice to be away from their home and families. For example, the NFL has games on Thanksgiving that they can not spend with their families. Not only are they away from their families and homes, but they give up all of their privacy in the ‘real world’.
	While many people feel that professional athletes and actors are overpaid they do not see all the hard work put into what they do. They go through rejections, put their health to the side, and leave their homes to entertain the world. These reasons are why I feel actors and professional athletes are not overpaid.
	