Compare and Contrast Essay
Love is one of the most used terms that us humans use. This word can be used physically, mentally, and even as a work of art. Speaking of art, two sculptures are displayed showing that they both indeed can fit in the same category. Although the sculptures “Love” by Robert Indiana and “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin share similarities, they as well show several differences.
If you look at “Love” and “The Kiss”, the art of love is shown in both pictures. The difference between the two is that one is expressed with words while the other is expressed with action. The letters displayed in the “Love” piece expresses the emphasis of words in the term of language. On the other side there is “The Kiss”, where the two people in the sculpture are in the action of kissing. Kissing is an expression of love, but in this case, it is the action of the sculpture that separates the two.
Love is powerful enough to stand alone or be expressed with two people. The “Love” piece is used as a stand-alone piece of artwork. There are no expressions in this piece; all the meaning comes from the word itself. On the other hand, there is a bond of love between the two objects in the piece. In the sculpture “The Kiss”, there are two people demonstrating what love looks like from back then, to our world today.
Out of both pieces, you can feel the love and affection more in “The Kiss”, rather than in “Love”. As you can see in “The Kiss”, a lot of emotions are shown; especially in physical form. You can tell that in this piece, it looks like the male and female are filling up on each other; both showing that they have that “I love you” type feeling for each other. No type of emotions is shown at all in the “Love” piece. Looking at the “Love” piece can make you paint a picture in your head about actual love being shown.
A four-letter word can be expressed in many ways. It can be shown with words and action as well. These sculptures can make you feel many types of emotions just by looking at the two of them. “Love” and “Kiss” are two wonderful pieces that send powerful messages.

