 Robert Indiana’s “Love” and Auguste Rodin’s “THE KISS” both demonstrate the emotion of love the texture, color, and imagery of Rodin’s work demonstrates its grater complexity. Both the works can be interpreted in various ways. However, Rodin’s “THE KISS” is far more complex. By comparing and contrasting the two images one will see that Rodin’s work is more thought-provoking than Indiana’s “Love”.
	The textures of both works have smooth surfaces throughout. Rodin’s work has more natural looking rough surfaces with jagged lines toward the base that gradually evolve into the smooth lines of the more refined main portion of the statue. “Love” by Indiana however, is nothing but sleek surfaces with razor-sharp edges. The textures of the paved urban background also make a point in Indiana’s work. The hard bricks of the city buildings make the smooth letters of the work “Love” stand out. The background of Rodin’s “THE KISS” is very gritty and dusty in texture making the viewer think of a more ancient time before all of the textures and surface of the urban environment observed in Indiana’s work.
	Both Rodin and Indiana’s works revolve around color as well. The colors used in the work of Rodin is more of an earthy grey color like that of a stone. It also uses colors like a subtle orange like color to represent a sunset behind the dusty background to highlight the grey of the man and woman pictured in “THE KISS”.  Indiana’s work however used vivid red and blues to make the word LOVE pop against the monotonous grey of the concrete covered city. These colors could also influence the viewer to think of a more modern version of this concept of love. Whereas the colors of Rodin’s work can make the viewer think of a more ancient view of what love is as well as what it means.
	Lastly, the imagery used in both works are a vital component. They both use images to make the viewer think of the emotion love. The imagery in “THE KISS” however express a more physical representation of the emotion. It uses the image of a man and woman kissing to influence the viewer to think of a more intimate version of love. Indiana’s “Love” is simply just the letters l, o, v, and e. But, just by the sight of the word LOVE the viewer could think about endless things from the idea of a past love one to the idea of what they think love means. The backgrounds of each work also play a vital role in each piece. The imagery in the background of “Love” is that of a city that is bustling with life it shows the more modern world in which we live in. The background of Rodin’s work makes one thing of a more ancient time.
	Both of the works by Rodin and Indiana are representations of the emotion love. They are also very thought inducing. Indiana’s work however is less complex. It is just a word in colors. Rodin’s work is superior due to its more intense, rough interpretation of the emotion.