Moving to College     

     Doing something new can be a scary experience, but also fun and exciting. Those were the emotions I felt while getting ready to move to college. I am very close to my family and I knew not seeing them everyday was going to be a challenge. Moving to college and out of my house was a BIG change. Being a college student and living on my own definitely changed my outlook on life.
     As the days were leading up to the big “Move In Day” I was getting more and more excited to start the next chapter in life, but at the same time getting sad I was leaving home. I did not know what to expect or even how to feel. As the days kept leading up I was packing my bags saying my “see you laters”, and just overall getting ready to start something new. Meanwhile, the whole time I was doing this it just felt surreal, like it was not actually happening. Before I knew it, the “Big Move In Day” was finally here.
     Moving into my dorm was one of the most hectic days of my life. I was exhausted at the end of the day as I rested in the unfamiliar dorm room. First, our car was parked like what seemed a mile away from my Fitzpatrick. Then, I had to walk up three flights of stairs several times while carrying rugs, clothes, towels, sheets, comforters, lamps, pictures and we only had two hours to move in. Just imagine my dad and best friend Jay carrying a rug large enough to cover my whole dorm floor, a mini refrigerator, thanks dad,  and all of my belongings because I definitely bought more than what I will ever need.  At one point I thought my dad was seriously going to have a heart attack, because while carrying the mini fridge to my dorm the stairwell had become congested therefore his speed slowed to a crawl as he suffered through the heat. Finally, we got everything moved in, organized and then it was time for the goodbyes or the “see you laters”.
     My parents did not leave right away. We made a Walmart trip and had supper at Mama Goldberg's. As my parents dropped me off and said goodbye, I felt heartbroken, and honestly I am not sure why because I knew I would see them again. It was really setting in that I was officially “on my own”. Saying my goodbyes to my parents was hard, but then my mom told me “this will just be like a big long sleepover” and it made me feel a lot better. After my parents left, I went back up to my dorm room, and me and my roommate continued to settle in. My roommate is my best friend from high school and  having her there made me feel more at home.
     All in all, moving out of my house and starting college was a unique, once in a lifetime experience that I have looked forward to since I was a little girl.  Living on my own instead of living with my parents has definitely changed my outlook on life. I still have a lot to get used to, but I think I am really starting to get in a new groove, and some things I am not sure I ever will get the hang of. I want to end with a quote from Eleanor Roosevelt that I always look to when I am going through big changes in my life, or just starting something new, “The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.” 