Often times society as a whole agrees that first responders and teachers are underpaid and other occupations such as healthcare professionals deserve the high pay they receive. Meanwhile, there is the argument that celebrities are overpaid. This shows that sometimes art is underappreciated and not recognized as well as it could be. The product that celebrities put out whether it is a movie, song, or sports performance is enjoyed every day by people around the globe. Actors dedicate a chunk of their lives to produce a film, athletes put their bodies and minds under a lot of stress for the sport, and musicians spend countless hours to produce and perform a single song.
It is overlooked, how much work an actor puts into a film. Viewers and fans never think about how these actors give up months, sometimes years to create the production that is only an hour and a half to two hours long. Dwayne Johnson is a perfect example of what it takes to make the films we enjoy. Not only does he spend his days on set but he actually has to move to the filming location for months at a time without his family. The hours spent on set working isn't even comparable to the hours off set spent memorizing lines and creating an entertaining character. 
Another point worth noting is why athletes deserve the high pay they receive, which is because of the commitment and consistency it takes to prepare not only mentally, but physically for the activity. These athletes have been training their entire lives to perform at the level they are on. They are required to condition their bodies for hours a day. This conditioning includes strength training, endurance training, flexibility, and mobility work. There is not a price that can be put on the amount of stress their bodies undergo during the performance, such as injuries and micro muscle tears, which cause soreness the next day. 
Musicians are another example of deservingly high paid celebrities. The long process of writing and producing a song frequently goes unnoticed. This process takes a creative and original mind to produce a likeable track. These musicians need to be educated well enough to follow the rules of music theory, in order to create good combinations of chords and rhythms. Even after this process is complete, the musician has to spend countless hours practicing the piece in order to perform it live in front of fans. 
Celebrities such as actors, athletes, and musicians are not overpaid; there are a few cases where they are, for example models. The celebrities stated in the paragraphs above work really hard to achieve the skills they have, modeling takes little to no skill therefore they are overpaid. Actors put their lives on hold for a film, athletes experience an enormous amount of physical and mental stress, and musicians dedicate numerous hours and days to a single song. You never realize how much work is put into these products, once you do you’ll understand why these celebrities have such a high pay.











