	Love can be portrayed in many ways. Sometimes it is obvious, but then sometimes it can very indiscreet. These two sculptures are a very prime example of the process of portraying love. One sculpture blatantly shows the word love, but the other just shows the act of physical love. Although these sculptures both show love, the minor differences in they way they show love, the focus of the sculptures, and where love is shown, show the deeper complexity of these works of art.
	When looking at these sculptures, both automatically give us a feeling of love. They both shows form of love in which we can easily recognize. Because we can recognize this, it could bring in a familiar feeling associated with how love is recognized. Despite both sculptures showing love and giving off this feeling, the sculpture showing a physical act of love is better at showing it. By showing how humans can act when feeling love, we can relate more by putting ourselves in the place of the human sculpture.
	Not only do these sculptures show love, they also show that love can be found anywhere. They show this by putting one form of love, the word sculpture, out in a public area, and another form of love, the human sculpture, in an empty background. This easily shows love can be found in a very populated place, or just by ourselves with nobody around. There is a difference in the love we can show in each area though. The word sculpture is out in a public place where one of the only ways we can show love without being criticized is by saying “I love you.” On the other hand, when we are alone with a loved one, as shown in the sculpture with human form, we can be more physical and more in depth with the love we show.
	One of the biggest similarities in each sculpture is where the focus is most provided. The focus of each picture is placed on the foreground by using color to set the foreground apart of the background. This causes it to be difficult to focus on the back ground of each sculpture which could easily mean that despite everything going on in our lives, love should always be a focus. Despite each sculpture using color to set the foreground apart from the background, it is more apparent in the sculpture with the word “love.” This is because of the use of the colors red and blue in the foreground, and the colors black and white in the background. This could be contrasted with the other sculpture by showing that saying the words “I love you,” is an easier way of portraying our love than physically showing it.
	Love is a very important part of all our lives. Despite how it is shown, it will always be present in some form or fashion. Whether it be obvious or hidden in some way we should always recognize its presence. Love can easily be shown through art it many ways. Because of this fact, these sculptures easily showed the differences in the types of love and how we can show it.