There are many people I would enjoy bringing from the past, present, or future. One of the first people that comes to mind is Chip Foose. I would bring him to my garage. Chip Foose is a renowned car enthusiast and builder. Chip Foose is also the creator of the show Overhaulin’. Chip Foose has been called to many companies for his level expertise in building performance cars. The person I would choose is Chip Foose, the place I would like to show is my garage, and there are many things I would like to share with him about my life.
	I would choose Chip Foose is because like him I am an Automotive Service Excellence Certified Mechanic and have worked on a variety of automobiles. Chip Foose also has built many motors and has done many performance modifications to vehicles as I have to a few vehicles including my own truck, atvs., and motorcycle. I am a huge car fanatic and enthusiast as well and would love to work on and talk about the motors and cars he and I have built. Having the chance to meet Chip Foose would also give the opportunity to learn and gain much experience from all the knowledge he has on building cars and motors. Also, Chip Foose is an all around great guy. He and his team of mechanics will take a car that someone cannot build or afford and build it for those people such as a veteran in the military or a person down on their luck with low income or no time on their hands to finish their car.
	The reason I would bring him to my garage is because that is where all my creative thinking and building happens. I own a 2004 F-150 and have built a full racing performance exhaust system and built the truck myself. I also have fully built two Honda four-wheelers and a motorcycle in this garage. This garage is special to me because I have done so much work and creative custom work and would enjoy the presence of Chip Foose admiring and discussing the builds I have done. I also would love to build something with Chip Foose in this garage where we can put our creative minds together to create something unique and amazing.
	Things I would share with Chip would be how I began my car fanatics from watching 2 Fast 2 Furious. I would share how I gained my knowledge in trade school and how I learned almost everything on my own starting from when I was fourteen. I would also share my experience with the many people that have helped me along the way from knowing nothing about an oil change to building motors now. I would explain how working on cars has influenced my work ethic, hard work, and passion to learn more about the unknown. I would mostly explain how I have made it one of my main hobby’s.
In conclusion, I would bring Chip Foose to my garage to meet someone with creative thinking and building ideas to mine. I would bring him here to learn and gain knowledge about cars to have the ability to do more. I also want to meet the famous man behind many famous racing vehicles and to build one with him. Chip Foose also said a quote that hits me and that is,” The biggest crime in America is the fact that they’ve pulled these shop classes out of schools. Kids today, their dream isn’t to build something it’s to buy something.” 