	Some people may think reading a novel is more exciting than watching its movie. Movies are vivid and theatrical, books tend to be more meticulous, yet both can still be exciting. Films may be considered the summary of the book. Sometimes books are slightly different than movies and other times they may be completely different. A novel and its film may differ in characters, plot, themes, etc. H.G. Bissinger’s novel, Friday Night Lights, differ from the original 2004 movie Friday Night Lights by containing more explicit detail, though both focus on crucial contradictions of the themes of racism, death, and deception. 
Racism takes place in the novel as well as the movie, however; in the book, racism is persistent. Bissinger discusses racism in the novel thoroughly, and even names chapter five “Black and White.” The chapter goes in depth about Odessa’s connection with race. The word “nigger” is used throughout the book and in Odessa loosely and frequently. The whites of Odessa in the novel believed there were two races of blacks. Those who were hardworking and easy to get along with and those who were lazy, thieves, and welfare-dependent. The novel gives us background about the journey of blacks becoming able to attend Permian High School and to play on the Permian football team. Permian High school was predominantly white, with 14 blacks and 94 Native-Americans. Many parents became upset about the idea of desegregation of the school system until they realized the value of some black students because of their athletic potential. There was only one black coach on the Permian football team in the movie and book. The book gives detail of how many blacks were in each honors class and on the football team. While in the movie racism isn’t discussed or mentioned nearly as much. The word “nigger” was used once throughout the entire movie. It was during the scene of Coach Gaines and some boosters having dinner when a woman states, “that big nigger ain’t gone break.” She was referring to Boobie Miles. Racism was not a concern in the movie until the coaches of Permian and Carter meets to decide where the playoff game should be. There were racial comments used, and it became intense. Although, the book discusses racism more thoroughly; in both the movie and novel coaches, parents, boosters, etc. show dependency on the black athletes. Racism was not the only theme the novel and film shared; there was also death. 
There are multiple ways death can be displayed. In Friday Night Lights, both the movie and book, there is death in Boobie Miles’s career. In the novel, it distinctly mentions the death of Mike Winchell’s dad, but in the movie, there is just an assumption that he is not present in Mike’s life. In the prologue of the novel, we learn that Boobie injuries his knee in a scrimmage against Palo Duro High School Dons. Boobie is so intent on playing in the Midland Lee game that it beclouds his judgment on the severity of his injury. He has to be out for six to eight weeks. Some whites questioned Boobie’s life after football; they said that it had no value. Boobie was fearful of not being able to go to college at all. Boobie started to become unnoticed; he returned to the field against the Abilene High Eagles. He does good, but it is not as good as what he usually does. Eventually, Boobie becomes aware that he will not be receiving much playing time. So, he discusses quitting with his uncle L.V. He decides to have the surgery. After surgery, Boobie’s spirit of football dies; even the word of football did not excite him. The book informs readers about the journey to the ultimate death of Boobie Miles’s high school football career. Mike Winchell’s dad’s death is also more detailed in the novel than the movie. We learn that Mike’s dad dies from injuries on his job as an oil field worker when Mike was just thirteen years old. Before he dies, he tells his son to live a good life, he must go to college, and that it was okay to drink occasionally, but no drugs were allowed. After his death Mike wanted his brother to take him away from everything, but he refused. Mike would not have been the player he was if it was not for his father. The death of Boobie’s career begins in the movie when Boobie gets hurt against Midland Lee. We can instantly hear the damage caused to his knee. In the film, Boobie is also intent on playing that he reacts so brutally to the doctor that L.V. has to refrain him from attacking. No one questions Boobie’s injury nor was it talked about nearly as much as in the book. When Boobie attempts to play again, he instantly hurts his knee even more. The next day, we see him gathering his things from the locker room, assuming he is quitting. After collecting his things, Boobie has an emotional breakdown with his uncle. Boobie love for the game never dies in the film. This is shown when he decides to ride the bus with the team to the playoffs. The movie does not discuss Boobie’s expired career; it mainly focuses on the journey of the football team. Although we learn information about Mike Winchell’s father in the book; there is no information given about him in the cinema. He is never mentioned throughout the movie. But we do see that Mike’s inspiration comes from his mother instead of the wishes of his father in the film. Bissinger also addresses the idea of deception in football. 
Though deception is used during the film and novel, we see more of it used throughout the story. In chapter three, Bissinger tells us that Boobie has a learning disability. The teachers, coaches, and L.V. pampered him by placing him in regular classes and not obtaining the help he required. They did not make him aware of the significance of receiving his education; instead, they deluded him by letting him believe that receiving his education was not as important as football. So, when he became hurt, he had nothing to resort to. Not only did he suffer an injury, but Boobie became crippled because of his dependence on football. Another scenario of deception in the novel is when the author states, “Miles left the scene almost immediately, convinced that the coaches had deceived him into letting him think he was going to get into the game, consumed with the rage of having to melt away on the bench in front of thousands” (Bissinger 253). Miles felt as if the coaches had lied to him. At that moment he felt betrayed because he had the expectations of playing, but the coaches did not find him beneficial anymore. He expected the coaches and people to be more caring and considerate, but once he became injured, he had no value to the coaches, team, or community. Deception in the film slightly differs from the book. When Boobie is first hurt, Coach Gaines asks the doctor how severe his injury is. Although the doctor tells him Boobie's injury is serious, Gaines decides to deceive the team. He explains to them that he will be fine and there is no tear, so it is not severe. Coach Gaines feel that the team depends on Boobie, so he decides to withhold the truth. Overall, Bissinger uses these themes to make people aware of the importance of them and how people are affected by them. 
Our perception of racism, deception, and death overall is controversial. We do not take it as seriously as we should. Bissinger addresses those issues throughout the book, and those issues still exist today in football and life. Society should not be permissive of the criticalness of racism or death. These topics should be acknowledged and discussed. Bissinger does a great job of highlighting essential contradictions that may take place in not only football but in life as well. 