Comparing and Contrasting Sculptures
Although these two sculptures represent love, the boldness, the different ways one can show their love, and the meaning behind them show how each of these sculptures differentiate from one another.  While “The Kiss” by Auguste Rodin is a more vulgar way of showing how people show love, “LOVE” by Robert Indiana shows how bold love can be without being vulgar. Both of the sculptures show how love can be shown in two completely different ways while having the same meaning. “The Kiss” is two people very affectionately kissing while sitting on a rock, so it seems as if they are outdoors in a romantic setting.  “LOVE“ is just the word “love” written in a very bold text with the L and O on top of the V and E. 
Both sculptures represent how love can be very bold whether it is shown in a vulgar way or not. “The Kiss” shows how love can be very bold through passion while “LOVE” shows how love can be bold without being vulgar. Both sculptures represent that love is a very bold thing whether it is shown subtly or not. While “The Kiss” seems to be placed in an outdoor setting based on how they are sitting on a rock, “LOVE” is placed in the middle of the city. This could mean that in “The Kiss” they could be outdoors risking someone seeing them in such a passionate mood. “LOVE” could be set in the middle of the city to show that love can be bold no matter where you are, and it does not matter who is around to see. Therefore, both sculptures show how bold love can be even though they look quite different from one another. 
	In these sculptures, many different meanings can be pulled by observation. “The Kiss” is two people that seem very much in love by the way that the man has his hand placed respectively on her hip and the woman’s arm wrapped around his neck as she holds him close to her. “LOVE” shows that no matter where you are, there is love. Both are a constant reminder that there is so much love in the world. “The Kiss” is very obviously showing how humans show their love to another person while “LOVE” just represents the overall meaning, an intense feeling of deep affection. “The Kiss” is specific to narrow it down to show just how humans show their affection towards one another while “LOVE” could represent one’s love for food, a sport, a movie, etc, but still representing love overall. 
By observation, one can see that these two sculptures are very different, but alike in a way when representing how love can be shown. “The Kiss” is showing that love can be in a romantic setting if you look at it as them making love so to speak, or it can show how you can have lust for someone while not loving them at all. “LOVE” is representing how bold love is in the middle of the city streets without a care who sees it, or how there is such a lack of love in the world today. Maybe these sculptures are placed where they are as a constant reminder to show love, and to be a loving person. Both of them can be looked at as a lack of love or full or love depending on one’s perspective. 
	While both sculptures very clearly represent love through different ways they are differentiated by the boldness, the different ways one can show their love, and the meaning behind them. Despite the fact that they appear very differently, they have many things in common when looking further from the outer appearance. Through observation it could even be believed that the sculptures are possibly representing a lack of love, and they were created as a reminder to show love in this world.
