
	Friday Night Lights the book and Friday Night Lights the movie have very similar themes but, they also can be very different.The movie Friday Night lights is basically a broad overview of the book. The book goes into a much deeper perspective of what goes on in the town. Although you would think that they were the same they are very much different.  In this essay I will be comparing and contrasting the themes of adults living through their children, relationships, and death.
	
I will start off by talking about the theme of adults living through their children. In the movie and book you are shown this theme a lot. Charlie billingsley shows this theme the most through the movie, his son Donnie Billingsley plays for his old school. Donnie is not the player that Charlie use to be so this makes Charlie mad. In the book you are somewhat shown this by L.V and Boobie Miles. L.V use to be a great football player back in his day but could never reach his goal of being a football player due to the segregation back then. So he tries to live his dream through Boobie because Boobie has the chance he did not. 

Next I will be talking about the theme of relationships and how they are alike and different through the book and the movie. In the book and the movie you are shown how good the relationship is between Boobie and L.V. You also see Mike Winchell and his mom’s relationship and how she is basically Mike’s father. But in the Book they talk about Mike’s dad and what relationship they had but they never really mention him in the movie. They really go into depth about him in the book. But yet in the movie you do not see him or hear him be brought up.

Last I will talk about the theme of Racism throughout the book and the movie. Towards the end of the movie and the book you see racism shown by both Carter high and Permian high school coaches. It is shown when trying to figure out where they want to play the state championship game. But in the movie it talks about how outside of football there is a lot of racism, and how the black students are treated kind of bad. Also the “n” word is shown a lot in the book but is not shown or said in the movie.

Although the themes are similar they also can be very different in the book and the movie. The movie and the book are both great, just the book goes into more depth than the movie. The movie is a shorter and does not tell the whole story it just tells enough. That is why the themes in both are easy to compare and contrast. 


