Night Lights the book, by H.G. Bissinger, and Friday Night Lights the movie, directed by Peter Berg, are both based off the same story, the sequence of events within the two are portrayed very differently from each other. Author H.G. Bissinger portrayed Odessa and Permian High exactly how it was, and the people of Odessa did not like that. He received multiple death threats after the release of his book in 1990. Before Friday Night Lights was set to film and be produced, director Peter Berg had to promise to show a much softer side to Odessa than what the book did. 
Throughout the book you see many examples of racism, which is something you don’t really see nor hear throughout the movie. Racial slurs and other sly comments are documented throughout, which is much more accurate than not. One thing highly portrayed in the book, however never clearly written, is masculinity. How the men around there portrayed themselves with their big state championship rings on, and how they threw that onto their sons. In the movie, masculinity of certain fathers and even players is toned down from the book, however, it is as clear in the movie as it is in the book how the fathers like to live through their sons. 
Of course, throughout the movie and book there are other small differences that are much clearer to the human eye. For example, Boobie Miles. He is portrayed as a pretty nice dude in the book, however in the movie he is really portrayed as a jerk, even kind of a showboat. Another 

difference in Boobie in the book and the movie is his jersey number. He is number 35 in the book but the movie changed him to 45. There are other small noticeable differences like the score against the Carter Cowboys goes from 14-9 in the book and 34-28 in the movie. Also, there is a slight character change from the book to the movie. Mike Winchell, in the book, has a father. However, he noticeably does not have one in the movie. In the very beginning of the film, Mike can be seen going over plays and other strategies with his mother, where normally he would be going over them with his father.
Throughout both the book and movie it is clear that Odessa provides sort of a social type structure. Football players were held to high standards, however not high enough. In the book it is clearly portrayed that football players got away with a lot of things, from poor behavior to failing grades. Teachers would pass them even if they did not show up to class. The movie shows something totally different. Throughout you never see the football players in class, you see a few shots of them in the hallways, receiving gifts from their assigned Papette, but you don’t see what was really going on between the players and their studies. 
Overall Friday Night Lights, both book and movie, provide great entertainment for anyone reading or watching. The book gives a more accurate and visual realization of the events as they happened and the movie overall sugar coats the entire thing, of course as demanded before the movie would be allowed to be produced. Back in 1988 Odessa and its residents absolutely worshiped Permian High football and they had much pride, that’s something that the book and movie absolutely have in common. There’s no movie or any other kind of depiction that can change that.