A good amount of the things we see on social media are misleading, related to celebrities, we only get a glimpse of when they are doing well. For instance, do you think actors and athletes post on Instagram when they are struggling? Most likely not. Now imagine if they posted their yearly revenue, and it looks fairly large compared to the average citizen. We would, by nature, draw the conclusion that they are paid too much, however, I do not believe that is the case. Although it is perceived that actors and athletes get a heavy income, there are a variety of factors that shows them being under paid.
Your gender determines a lot in America today. You don’t expect to turn on your favorite college football team to see a female as the kicker. Instead you would turn on your favorite college or pro softball team. The average annual salary for a National Football League player is seven hundred and seventy thousand dollars a year. Now compare that to the average National Pro Softball League salary of fifty-three thousand a year. We can take that same scenario into acting. The average female actor makes five to six percent less than their male counterparts. Now some will say it is a coincidence, but most likely it is not. 
In 2018, we still manage to have a lot of disputes upon race. The average human would probably not believe that these race debacles happen in sports too. However, if you look at the amount of income a white male will make playing pro football, the number will be slightly if not significantly larger than that of a black male, even on the same team. If we take that same situation into place but with actors, that’s where whitewashing comes into play. Whitewashing is when a casting crew will pick white actors to play the roles of non-white roles in films. This process shows how the minority classifications are basically being robbed of the roles they should get to partake in. Keeping that in mind, if directors wanted to pay minorities to cast in their films, then whitewashing would be nonexistent. 
A large number of athletes get paid for promotions. In fact, they get paid more for doing gigs and commercials, than they get for actually playing their sport. When you are shown on the cover of magazines and billboards, you gain opportunities. If we think about how much it takes to shoot a commercial, a number around the millions will show up. However, those involved in the commercial or shoot for a label, have to be paid too. When their talent increases then their popularity increases, which makes their opportunities rise also. Why do you think Lebron is on a Gatorade commercial? Because, if you see a star pro basketball player drinking something that was told to “improve his performance”, we will want to seek to try that new product too. Athletes and actors help companies gain revenue, also while increasing their own. When they are not shooting a movie or are on the off season, they will nine times out of ten be promoting something else that will bring them money. 
In conclusion, I do not believe that actors and athletes are paid too much, but debatably not paid enough. Race, gender, and promotions are just three of the factors that can alter their pay. With the average cost of living constantly rising, you can never have too much revenue.     


