Why Actors and Athletes Should Not Be Called Overpaid
	A big topic in the news today is the pay grade of actors and pro athletes. Many critics say that people working in these two professions are paid entirely too much. I assume they would not feel the same way if they were the ones making the big bucks. With all due respect, what right do we have to proclaim how much money someone should earn, unless of course we are their employer. How would you feel if you were offered a raise and someone who was not a part of your company said you do not deserve the raise? This way of thinking is illogical and wrong. Actors and athletes, because of the pleasure they bring to fans, the money they make for their employers and other organizations, and the lack of job security they face, are most defiantly not overpaid.
	Ask any American if they have ever watched a movie, tv show, or any kind of sporting event, and I guarantee that 99.9% of the time the answer will be yes. Most Americans’ free time is spent doing one of these three things, so it is fair to say that the actors and athletes who provide this entertainment are necessities in our daily lives. Many people could not tell you who their state senators are, but they could tell you who the star quarterback and receiver on their favorite football team is. The same people who are so highly invested are also the ones saying that these actors and athletes make too much, which is comical. If people truly thought that actors and athletes were making too much it would be simple to just stop aiding them by turning the tv off, and to stop buying ticket. Something tells me not many would be willing to do that.
	Many people talk about how much how much actors and athletes make, but no one mentions how much revenue they create for their employers and other businesses. One example of this is how much sports team owners make from ticket sales, tv deals, and player merchandise, all of which would be impossible without the players actually playing their sport. This is why you don’t see team owners complaining about their players’ pay as whole, though sometimes there are disagreements about how much an individual player should make. This is why when the NBA negotiates a new T.V. deal the league salary cap increases. Owners truly understand how much their players are worth, and the same idea applies to actors and the money they make for their respected film studios and broadcasting companies. Another example that is often overlooked is how much revenue actors and athletes create for outside businesses. Would there be a need for movie theaters without actors making movies? This is a whole chain of businesses dependent on actors making movies. Imagine how much of a drop there would be in the purchase of party foods and decorations if there were no sports parties or tailgating events. This would hurt not only these food companies, but also the stores that sell these products. When you really look at the effect actors and athletes have on many aspects of the economy, the idea of them being overpaid seems less convincing.
	The most important argument for why actors and athletes are not overpaid is the lack of job security that comes with their careers. In sports, a single freak accident can lead to an injury that ends a player’s career just as it starts. Also, in most sports a player’s career will last 15 years or even less than that. Actors face a similar problem in which people will tend to get tired of seeing the same faces on the screen making many actors’ careers short lived. These people have to make as much money as they can in the short amount of time available to them.  People should think about this before they claim that actors and athletes are overpaid.
	It is easy to look at actors and athletes making millions of dollars a year and call them overpaid. Everyone wants their job to pay that well, but there are serious factors that earn them the right to make those high salaries. Their careers are very unique in nature and it’s hard to compare to everyday jobs. For the people that are bothered by the wage gap between them and the actors and athletes, they can turn the T.V.s of and stop buying tickets as I said earlier in the essay. Everybody has the right to make as much money as possible, and if your employer is willing to pay you the big bucks like the actors and pro athletes of the world, magnificent. Just do not  criticize others for making their living.

