     When you hear about actors, actresses, singers and athletes, are you immediately in awe of them? How about your doctor, your high school history teacher, local farmer, or soldier, are you in awe of them? Professional athletes and entertainers are extremely talented and most of them are great at their craft. They always wear the most stylish clothes, living life to the fullest, traveling the world, and spending lots of money because they get paid lots of money. Plus, they make lots of money by using their natural talents. Therefore, who would not want to pay tons of money just to see them and be in their presence? Several people pay large amounts of money to attend events and concerts just to be in their presence. Overall, the work of our doctors, educators, engineers, military, and farmers are not valued or idealizes as much as our entertainers, instead, we put a larger emphasis on our entertainment versus our basic human existence.
     Entertainers add fun, excitement and laughter to our lives, but doctors hold our very delicate lives in their hands. Doctors go to school for years just to specialize and learn about the human body and how to keep it alive. Without doctors mankind would not be able to survive.  Entertainers are not a necessity to life, but a luxury.  As a society, we should want our doctors viewed in the same way as entertainers. We should want our doctors to make more than entertainers, because without doctors there would be no fun or entertainment.
     What about our educators? Why are they not getting paid the same as our entertainers? After all, they challenge students to be their best self, and without our educators how is the human race supposed to grow, develop, and expand their knowledge. Would some actors and athletes be where they are today without the support from an educator? Imagine the positive impact on society if we idealized our educators the same way we idealize our entertainers. Instead of focusing all the negative that surrounds education in the media it would be a change if the media would praise for all the positive attributes educators bring to the world. 
     Lastly, the work of farmers ranks as instringuest, some farmers do not make enough money to meet the demands of their day to day operations. We love the joy brought to us by entertainers, but without farmers how are you supposed to survive each day without the production of their hard work. Although, several entertainers have paid tribute to our farmers with their songs and lyrics such as “She Thinks My Tractor's Sexy, The Farmer’s Daughter or Rain is a Good Thing” just to name a few.
     The sad thing is doctors, educators, and farmers are not the only jobs out there that humans depend on to survive. There are jobs such as firefighters, military, policemen, scientist, and several others who dedicate or risk their lives to to keep humans growing, developing, thriving and safe. With all that being said, do you believe actors and professional athletes, and entertainers are extremely overpaid?  Again, entertainers are fun and provide escape from our everyday lives but farmers, educators, doctors, engineers, military should be making the big bucks and receiving praise, because after all without them the human kind would just simply  not be able to function. In closing, the people we rely on and need the most are overworked, underpaid, unappreciated and often not thanked enough for their important roles. 