Friday Night Lights
In a small town called Odessa, Texas, football makes a big impact on everyone's lives. From the football players and the coaches to the teachers and parents football controls a lot around the town. Although, H. G. Bissinger’s Friday Night Lights book and the movie are both about Odessa’s Permian Panthers, the themes of pressure, pride, and obsession all play huge but different rolls in both. 
First, pressure is shown in the movie when it shows Mike Winchell in the kitchen with his mother eating breakfast. His mother is calling out plays to him and gets on to him when he gets one slightly wrong. Later it shows college scouts at his house interviewing him and his mother is answering all the questions for him and staring down at him when he has to answer causing emints pressure. In the book after Boobie Miles hurts his leg and is out for the season, it really emphasises the pressure that will now be on all the players. Mostly the quarterback, Mike Winchell, will have a lot of pressure on him to step up and really lead the team without their key player.
To show the theme of pride the movie shows a clip of LV talking about Boobie to the college scouts at the first practice. He builds him up and makes him sound better than anyone. You can tell by the way he is talking about him he is very prideful in his adopted nephew. Later in the movie it shows Charlie run on the field to his son Donnie, not to congratulate him but to yell at him in the middle of a practice. Charlie told him how much of a disappointment he was to him and that he was embarrassing him. He continues to throw him to the ground and yell as everyone just watches. In the book LV talks about Boobie with the same pride as he does in the movie. It really shows how much he loves him and how prideful he is in the nephew he raised. 
Thirdly, the movie shows obsession when the players are at the watermelon feed and they are asking for pictures like they are famous. Mike Winchell even gets asked by a family to hold their baby for a picture showing just how obsessed they are with football and the players. In the book it puts a lot of emphasis on how the town practically shuts down when there is a game. It expresses how all the shops, including chain stores like walmart close in time for everyone to go watch football. The book even says that the football stadium can hold up to twenty thousand people. The book also shows obsession with football through the watermelon feed. At the watermelon feed people bring their football yearbooks and it states in the book that there were 513 individual advertisements raising a total of about twenty thousand dollars.
These are just a few of the important themes used in Friday Night Lights. The themes of pressure, pride, and obsession really shape all the characters and the town as a whole. Without all these aspects guiding the players they wouldn’t be who they grew up to be. 

