	 The age-old question of which you like better, books or movies, never ceases to amaze me.  While everyone has a different opinion on which is better, it is the differences in which they both are portrayed that is truly fascinating.  Some people will say that the books are always better, while some say the movie.  For someone who doesn’t prefer one over the other, I guess the real question is not which is the best but how are they are the same yet different.  It seems that there is always something from the book that does not get put into the movie or there is something in the movie that is not in the book.  For most book lovers that is their biggest pet peeve. With Friday Night Lights this is true, as it has many similarities and differences such as the games, character details, and the event of Boobie’s injury.
	 While the movie is good it changed several little things that the book had. In the movie they added more games, where the book mainly focused on the semifinal game. While in both the movie and book they played the Carter Cowboys, the difference comes in which game it is. In the book it is the semifinals, in the movie it is the state championship. The movie not only changed which game it was but also changed scores. Although both show that Permian lost, one says the score was fourteen to nine, while the other says the final score was thirty-four to twenty-eight.
	 Another point worth noting is that the book dives deep into each of the lives of the key players, the movie focuses more on the team. Backstories such as Mike Winchell’s were completely left out of the film. Both are similar in the fact that they show what is going on with his mother’s illness, but the movie fails to give details on what exactly happened to his brothers and father. Not only does the movie leave out the backstories but it changes small details that some would argue are important including players positions and jersey numbers. The book states that Boobie’s number is thirty five and he was the fullback, the movie shows his number is forty five and he is a tailback.
	My third and final point is the event of Boobie Mile’s injury. H.G. Bissinger tells that Boobie was injured at a scrimmage game, as for the movie this isn’t the case. In the movie he was injured at an actual game. Although the movie changed some facts about the event, the director did a great job at showing how opposing players felt about him and his injury showing that they didn’t care about his health. In spite of the differences in small details between the two, at least the event was featured in both.	
	In closing both the movie and book were well received by the critics, so much that they made it into a television series. Friday Night Lights has its similarities and differences such as the games, details in the characters, and the event of Boobie Miles’ injury. Even with the differences between the two, it really comes down to what you prefer.  However, if neither the book or movie interest you, just go to any small town in America on a Friday night.  There you will get a first hand glimpse into exactly what the author and director wanted you to feel and see. 
 
