The evolution of a student
 It was my eighth-grade year, and we were signing up for our freshman classes for next year. Due to my current teacher at the time Mrs. Huguley told me to take an advanced English course. She told me it would be the same pace with a similar style of learning. Though when I took the class it became more and more clear how different the class was thanks to Mrs. Burnett the teacher of this advanced English class.  The advanced English class changed the way I look at writing, life, and me as a person and student. The English class first changed how I look at writing, because she explained to our class how authors use things that seem odd, or out of place as symbols, foreshadowing, and allusions.  She got these ideas into minds during the second week of school through to kill a Mockingbird. For example, the mockingbird is a representation of innocence, and Boo Radley being used to the good that remains in people. Through to kill a mockingbird I learned an author writes everything for a purpose. This was the start of the first wave of changes that happened to me that changed me as a student and person.  The second way the class changed me was how I looked at life. Due to Mrs. Burnett teaching us to always pay attention to subtle information while to look for deeper meanings. For me personally, I started Applying, this to my everyday life as at this time racial tensions were picking up due to police brutality. Also, my demographic was realizing how the media on both sides were using the situation to convey certain messages. I was taking what Mrs. Burnett taught me as a technique to not get caught up on either side of the situation.  The last way the English class influenced and changed me was as a person.  Before the class, I always was a good person though it had no purpose it was more selfish. The various pieces such as, to kill a mockingbird taught me that no matter how evil the world becomes people with good character, and decency will always remain as a beacon of hope onto the world. Which in turn encouraged me to emulate this into character and personality as a person. The course reflected how Mrs. Burnett taught it which were and still difficult concepts to grasp so it caused me to drastically increase my hours toward reading and studying to make sure I understood the material.