Actions Speak Louder Than Words 
	Love. It is one word, four letters, but what does it mean? What is it? The Webster’s dictionary states, “strong affections for another arising of kinship or personal ties.”; but society as a whole has changed the definition, to the point where we don’t know what real love is anymore. We throw it around like it does not have a meaning. It is hard to tell what is real and what is fake. Sometimes we will find ourselves sitting around picking petals off a flower while saying, “He loves me, He loves me not” hoping it would be he loves me. Its so easy nowadays for someone to show you, false love. False love does not mean you go around and tell someone you love them and you don’t mean it, its when you spend time with someone, you invested your time and energy  in them and then one day out of the blue they leave you high and dry with nothing but an “it’s over”, not a reason why they left, not an “I’m sorry” or even a “goodbye.” There are a lot of negative types of love out there but there also is a positive love out there. There is that sweet love that you wish could last forever. It is where nothing can go wrong and no one could do no wrong, and there is the timeless love that never fades. This is when you are in your late 70’s but are still acting like you are in your teenage years when you first meet. There's true love that is a mixture of them both, true love is what we are all hoping to find one day. Looking at both of these statues made me think of love, and all of the many forms it can take. Although the Love statue by Robert Indiana and The Kiss by Auguste Rodin both displays love; the meaning, the location, and the feeling of The Kiss by Auguste establishes its greater complexity.
		There is an old saying that states, “Actions speak louder than words.” This saying went for everything, it proves that you can say that you were going to do something all day long, but it does not mean anything if you do not follow through on your word. This saying is the first impression you get when you see these two statues side by side. The love sculpture is just a word and when you see it, it gives you a warm feeling. It reminds you to be kinder to others and your loved ones but that’s all it gives you. This is a feeling, maybe a little reminder, that you will forget along the way; however, The Kiss,  gives you not only the same feelings but it makes you never forget. Not only that, The Kiss makes you remember that not only do you need to show love but that the other person can and will do the same if they love you. It is a reminder that if the person really loved you they would prove it to you in any way possible. It shows that if the person really did care they would never leave you guessing on if they feel the same way about you. When we show people how we feel instead of telling them how we feel, It changes the connection between you and the other person. It makes feelings easier and genuine for both sides. While The Love sculpture can be the fake love where you tell someone you love them and do not mean it completely; while, The Kiss is the sweet love, were you could do no wrong, were you remember the little things during your late night conversations, and were you can not get enough of each other. The Kiss at first glance represents the depiction of actions speak louder than words, and it is screaming that this is real love.	
Imagine you are 5 or 6 years old, in your local grocery store with one of your parents or guardians, you guys are checking out with a happier cashier, she seemed like one of the happiest people you have ever meet, as she takes the credit card you notice cuts on her wrist. You wait until you are out of earshot to ask your parent or guardian, “what happened?” “Why would she do that if she is so happy?” They look at you with a look that you will never forget and say, ”We do not know what is happening behind closed doors.”  What we do or say in public is different from what we do or say in private. Who we are in private is the real us. We think no one is watching so why not do it? The location of these statues really say wonders to me; they are both in public, but love is on the outside in the middle of a park, while The Kiss is Inside of a museum in Austria. However, the physical location of these statues is not where I am going with this, in the beginning, I used the phrase we do not know what is happening behind closed doors. The sculptures are the perfect example of this. You can show love to anyone and everyone when people are watching and listening to you, but when it comes down to it, it is all about what you say and does when no one is around. The love sculpture being outside represented how fake it can be, how we do or say what we think people what to hear or see; having said that, The Kiss sculpture is inside. It represents who the real us is, it is what we say or how we act when no one is around to judge us or alter our decisions.
Looking and touching are two different effects no matter when it comes to an object or a person. When you look at someone, not physically but metaphorically, you can see what is on the surface. What they like and how they act, the difference between a real smile and a fake one but when you touch someone, you touch their soul, you know there wants and deepest desire, you know there biggest fears and you know how this person ticks. When you are looking at someone you hold their attention until they are through with you. When you touch someone you hold their heart, and they are trusting you not to break it. The statues have an effect on you, however, they show a different one for each. Love is just a brightly colored word. It is pretty and out in the open in a bold red. The color red symbolizes a lot such as sex, lust, and passion. When you look at Love you are just looking at the surface and it just looks back at you. When you look at The kiss it touches you, it shows a raw emotion that you only see with someone you love deeply,  it touches your soul, you can understand the emotions running through the place. It takes you to a place that you never thought was imaginable. A place where you feel love all around you. These two statues have an effect on you when you first look at them, but The Kiss has a more raw emotion that has a stronger effect on you than love does. The Kiss shows a more invested emotion that touches you not physically but emotionally.
Love is a powerful word, and emotion, that we take for granted sometimes. You never know how powerful it is until you experience the good and the bad effects of it. Overall both statues provide a beautiful embodiment of the concept of love, But The Kiss displays more of a raw emotion that sets a fire in you. The Kiss teaches you that actions speak louder than words, and how you don’t know what is happening behind closed doors and what its like to touch someone's soul. True love is hard to find but once you find it you should never let it go. True love is represented in The Kiss, so pure and so kind. The Kiss shows love and the emotion behind it. The Kiss takes you to a place where you did not think existed. Love and The kiss both display love; however, The Kiss displays more of a  real, genuine and vulnerable state of love.