Narrative Essay
	It was June 25 and I was laying in my bed watching Netflix, which was nothing out of the ordinary. My dad called me, and when I answered he told me to drive to his house because my brother had flipped a razor and broken his leg. I freaked out a little because no one in my family had ever hurt themselves before, so I had never been to an emergency room. I told myself that it was not a big deal, that people break bones all the time, and Trace, my brother, would be home that night. I drove to my dad’s and waited for him to get back from the scene. As soon as he walked in he started packing a bag. I was very confused and said "Dad, what the crap are you doing? It's just a broken leg. They will put a cast on it and send him home." Then Dad told me that from what he had seen before they loaded Trace up in the ambulance, that he would probably need surgery. Then, of course, the worried, protective, big sister that I am, I started freaking out. Dad drove us to Children's Hospital in Anytown to meet Mom and Trace in the emergency room. Little did we know we would be making that drive for the next several months.
Once we got to the emergency room we hunted to find Trace’s room. I walked in and I suddenly realized that when Dad said Trace broke his leg, he did not mean a little fracture like I thought. Trace’s knee was pointed towards the ceiling, and his foot was pointed towards the ground. He was bleeding all down the bed and into the floor. I tried my hardest not to throw up because I do not do well with blood, so I started cracking jokes. Trace and I are very close and mess with each other all the time. He did not mind the jokes, but my mother did not find them very funny. After we had been there for a while the doctor came in and told us that they were going to take Trace to surgery and put rods in his leg. He told us to prepare for a few weeks in the hospital. Shortly after that conversation, they took Trace back for surgery. We waited for four hours. Finally, the surgeon called us back. He told my parents that the surgery went well, but that he would not be able to put pressure on his leg for twelve to sixteen weeks. He also said that he was giving Trace's case to a plastic surgeon because he would probably need skin graphs from where his leg got torn open by the road. The surgeon allowed us to ride up the elevator with him to his room. Once we got trace all settled, Dad decided to stay the night with him, so Mom and I went home. 
	The next morning, we went back to the hospital and the plastic surgeon came in to evaluate Trace’s wound and talk to my parents about the plan for surgery. Doctor Meyers explained that Trace’s leg had received massive trauma to it. He would need to take muscle and tissue from another part of his leg and move it to the injury to promote cell growth and healing. He said that the recovery time for this surgery would be very extensive, and Trace would be in the hospital for several more months. He explained that Trace would have to stay in bed for two weeks following the surgery, and he would not walk normally again for another year. At that moment I could see my high spirited, thirteen-year-old brother lose all hope. He is a very active kid and loves to race dirt cars and run track, so hearing that he would not be able to do those things for another year broke his heart. 
	After the doctor left we did everything we could to get Trace in a better spirit. He was very depressed, would not eat, and barely talked. July 5th was the big flap surgery. Until then he had a wound vac attached to his leg pumping out all the excess blood in order to promote healing. Every three days they had to take him back to the operating room to clean out his wound and change the wound vac. On every day that he did not have a wound vac change, we loaded him up in his wheelchair and explored all of Children's and UAB hospital.  
	July 4th came, and it was nothing like our normal Independence Day. Every year our whole family goes to our lake house at Smith Lake. We spend all day on the lake, and Pawpaw makes a huge lunch. We all celebrate our country’s birthday as a family. It is one of my favorite holidays. That Independence Day definitely was not my favorite. My grandfather brought us some ribs to eat in the hospital, then that night we wheeled trace out onto the top of the parking lot where we watched Thunder Over the Mountain. Trace was so worried about his surgery the next day that he did not even pay attention to the firework show. After it was over I gave him a hug and told him I would see him tomorrow. As I backed away from him I felt that my shoulder was wet. I looked down and saw streams of water rolling down Traces cheeks. I knew not to make a big deal about it because it would embarrass him, so I gave him another hug and went back home heartbroken. I could not bear to see my brother in such a state. As I laid down to go to sleep I took out my bible and read for hours and prayed over Trace’s surgeon and that God’s will be done.
	I was up at five o’clock the next morning and by Trace’s side at six. We prayed over him and told him we would see him in a few hours. Doctor Meyers told us that those procedures typically last around seven hours, but he had never had one go over twelve. My entire family waited patiently for Trace to be done. They called us periodically and told us that everything was going well. We had several visitors come throughout the day to check on us and bring us things. Eventually, we were the only family left in the waiting room. It was hour fifteen of the surgery. I was about to leave because the last we heard everything was good and I did not want to drive back home super late. Mom was walking me to the elevator when the surgeon came out and asked to speak to my parents. At that time my stomach dropped. I decided to wait and see what was going on. Twenty, thirty, forty, minutes later my mom and dad walked out of the consulting room. Mom was crying, and Dad’s face was a ghost white. They told us that the surgery, which had a ninety-nine percent satisfactory rate, had failed, and there were two options left. They would try another type of graph that would leave Trace in the hospital for another four months, and if that did not work they would amputate his leg.  
	The night after Trace’s surgery both of my parents stayed at the hospital with him, so I was home alone. I cried for hours and even called my mom to tell her I would stay home and go to a community college near my house. Then I told myself that things could be worse. I thought back to my mission trip to Haiti. I knew that if someone had done that to their leg there, they would surely die from infection. My brother was in a state-of-the-art hospital and he would survive this. He would have a long road of recovery, but he would make it. 
	When Trace woke up the next morning Mom explained to him that the surgery did not work, but he already knew. He had overheard some nurses talking on his way to recovery the night before. He was devastated. Not only did he have his original injury to his left calf, but he then had two gruesome incisions on his thighs from a surgery that did not even work. For the following weeks before the next big surgery, we got him out of his room as much as possible. They even discharged him for two weeks so he could go home and see our dog.  When August came around, it was time for the second big surgery. We prayed and prayed that it would work. We even prayed for a miracle, and that is exactly what we got.
	We waited patiently in the waiting room for several hours. Every time the phone from the operating room rang we jumped up and ran to see if it was for us. Finally, they called us with some news. They explained to Mom that they had opened his other calf to get a vein to transfer over to the bad leg, but before they removed it they found a usable vein in his bad leg that was not picked up on the ultrasound they had done before the surgery. The vein they found had not been there in any of the wound vac surgeries either. It was truly miraculous. They were able to do a less intense graph that had a shorter recovery time. Trace was able to go home and week and a half after his surgery.
	Now Trace is home and was able to return to school on August 10th. He is on crutches and can gradually put weight on his foot a year before he was originally expected to. His journey may not have been a big deal to others, but it was everything to me. Trace’s journey proved to me that there is power in prayer. My family knows a lot of people, so his injury spread all over Alabama. There were hundreds of people praying for my brother. Though the first surgery did not work, it was a blessing in disguise. If the first one had worked Trace would not be up right now moving around doing some of the things he loves to do. I learned to just trust God’s timing and allow His will to be done. It is the little things, like a mystery vein, that make the biggest impact. God is always working, even if I can not see what he is doing when he is doing it. He has a plan and I learned to always trust Him in every situation that is thrown my way.