When you were a child you were expected to know what you wanted to be. You were expected to know how to love and what to love. You were expected to make the biggest impact in the world. And in a way, you did start from your first steps to the first beer. But you did not truly know who you were, nor what you would love. Sometimes it takes people years, others minutes to find what they love. For me, it took one person to love me to change my whole mindset. My feelings changed, my mind opened up, and my life took a complete turn. This is the story of the time I, found my sexuality and found myself. 
           You know when you will be at church and you just had a strong gut feeling that there was just something wrong with you? That if you told people about how you felt that you would be judged? I did. I would be so confused when I would look at another woman if it was just me thinking they were pretty or if I thought they were gorgeous? I would feel so guilty when I would see this gorgeous girl and feel flutters in my stomach when they pass. Just because I felt like my church would not accept me and think that I was just “crazy.” Well, I guess I will tell you how my feelings towards that door changed.  
          I used to think that it was wrong of me to see other girls as beautiful and as something I would like to call mine. But, one day it all changed. I talked to my parents about my feelings towards men and women. Telling them about how I believe that I have feelings for both. And what they said, changed everything. Both of my parents told me, “Sam, if you love a woman then you love a woman, if you love a man then you love a man. You don’t need to be worried about what we will say or the family. A family is meant to love and we will love you unconditionally no matter what,” and at that moment, I felt open and so loved. I used to feel so scared and bothered that if I came out to my parents as being bisexual then would they still love me or shun me? But, that’s not the case. I felt so much better about myself. I felt the love and the hope of forever. I was so scared, so afraid that I would be alone. But knowing to have my family by my side made my heart change and feel for the better. To where I started to open up more and my mind and soul would reach out for more love and good intentions.  
          Before any of my family showing me the love for showing them who I was, I was so locked in my mind and so clogged. I used to be one of the most closed minded people that you would know. It was like my brain was its own introvert while outside I was an extrovert. But, later down the road, she blossomed like a flower. I opened up to the fact that I need to show who I am in and out, that I need to have an opened mind and opened arms. Never should anyone feel like they have to hide who they are. You should always feel open to share people with who you are, show people the true you and only the real you. If no one likes who you are even after you spread your positivity and who you then drop them, they are not worth your time nor your breath. After you drop all the toxic people and keep those that love you close to you, then you will notice the good changes in your life and how your life completely turned around. 
          Just like how your life turned around, mine did too. Yes, I lost some people in my life that I loved due to showing them who I truly was. But, honestly, that doesn’t matter. You will be so surprised by the impact of how people leaving and others staying will have on you. It shows you who you should trust and who you should just walk away from. I feel so free. Without all those toxic people that were in my life, I feel like a bird just learning how to fly. It feels so beautiful to feel so open and wide. I love that I can now go on with my life without having to worry about others and what they think of me. I go out more and I show everyone who I am once I walk in. Don’t be afraid to be who you want to be. There are always good outcomes from doing things that make you vulnerable but end up in the greatest scheme of things. 
          You were once a child, feeling pressured into finding what you want to be in the future. Going to a church being afraid of showing who you are. Today, I want to share with you, that you never have to be afraid. The only thing you should be afraid of is yourself, and you lie to yourself. Sharing who you are changes everything. Well, it did for me. It shows me, love, it showed me my true feelings, it changed how I thought about love, and it truly turned my life around and saved me from drowning myself. Do not ever be afraid, be fearless, and share to everyone who you are and be you! The best you that you can be. Do not lie to yourself and others by being a fake version of you. Spread the positivity, turn your life around. Be right by being bright!

