Friday Night Lights > The Spot Light
If I had the chance to bring anyone to a place I adore and treasure in my heart, I would bring Kim Kardashian to little Rome, Georgia. As a celebrity she has lived her life luxuriously and, in the spotlight, having most things handed to her. My hometown, Rome, Georgia is a small town where everyone knows everyone which I feel is luxurious. My purpose of bringing Kim to my hometown would be for her to understand the small things in life are sometimes far greater than the bigger brighter things. 
First, I would have to bring Kim to a Friday night football game in my hometown. Someone who does not understand the atmosphere of a small-towns gameday and what the whole Friday consist of on a gameday has no idea what they are getting into. The whole day consist of smack talk, tailgating and of course tons of food. This high energy atmosphere is the reason I would love to bring Kim to my hometown. Every time you pass someone they ask you “Are you coming to the game tonight?” and the only response is “See you there.” I think every person should get to have this experience in their life at least once. This is one reason I would bring Kim to a Friday night football game in Rome, Georgia. 
Secondly, I would have to take Kim to my downtown. My downtown is full of historical background. Broadstreet is a tiny road with buildings lining both sides of the street. You can find anything from the “hangout bars” to cute boutiques you can even find 4 different ice cream shops. Personally, one of my favorite historical pieces of Broadstreet would have to be the “Capitoline Wolfe with Romulus and Remus” this statue sits in front of our city auditorium. This statue was a gift from the Roman Governor and is an exact replica of a piece of art that stands in the Ancient Capitoline Hill in Rome, Italy. Another favorite downtown feature of mine would be our Desoto Theatre, which was built in 1928 and has been showing musicals and plays ever since. Both historical pieces are very valuable to my hometown and I would love to see the similarities and differences in the values in Kim’s life and mine. 
Lastly, I would bring Kim to Berry College, this is the second largest campus in the world and we have the privilege to share this amazing campus within my community. Berry College is the biggest thing Rome, Georgia has, and nothing is close to it. Therefore, I would love to bring Kim to see all the beautiful aspects to it and compare her life style to mine. There are so many adventures Berry offers, whether it is hiking to The House of Dreams or having a picnic with deer in an open field. These are the big things in my life and I would love to see how it would compare to the big things in Kim’s life. Bringing Kim to Berry would be very eye opening for her and I hope she would see the big things in my life may seem small or not important to her. 
Bringing Kim to little Rome, Georgia would hopefully help Kim to see the aspects in my life that I value and find most important. What I value may appear small to her, but these are the differences every single person has in their lives. Not any one person has the same life or values, therefore what seems small to me could be the biggest moment in another person's life. Also, I hope Kim would see that these small things in her life are far greater than she ever thought before. 
