Love Through Different Ways  
Love can be shown or created in multiple different ways. There could be a physical piece of art that replicates love .There could be an emotional connection or word in a poem or letter. A physical representation of love is shown through two pieces of art. One piece is Robert Indiana’s “Love” and the other is Augusta Rodin’s “The Kiss.” There are many similarities and differences between the two such as meaning, physical aspects, and viewer impact. 
Indiana’s sculpture is said to be created as a symbol of his love for his late father. Its meaning depicts the love between two people through one single bold word. Rodin’s sculpture has a very different meaning This sculpture was a moment from the book “Dante’s Inferno” where two lovers kissed for the first time through adultery. The two sculpture are alike in the was that they show love but through different forms. 
Physical aspects can completely change the way you think about the sculptures. “Love” has bold colors and letters that jump out at you red meaning passion and blue representing the sadness that comes with it. The physical qualities of “The Kiss” are very different. The chiseled rock defines the bond between the lovers, and the gray color of the rock creates a timeless feel.  They both physically show love one through word and then love through a kiss.  
One of the more significant details about the sculptures is the impact it has on the viewers. The overall characteristic of Indiana’s sculpture is bold. The sculpture gets viewers attention and shows them that the love is intense and passionate. Rodin’s sculpture has more graphics and in-depth characteristics. When people see this sculpture, they can get the intense love that the two people share. Both sculptures affect viewers in a positive way because a real idea love is created.  
The sculptures display love in different forms. The viewer can genuinely see the image the artists were trying to create through meaning, physical aspects, and the effects it has on the viewers. They both get the point of love across, but in very different ways. The details physical and symbolic make these two sculptures have a deeper meaning and reason. The overall comparison of these sculptures is that they are very different, but their central element is the same. 