Strange Love

Many experiences in life can have an effect that stays with you forever. A certain event or extreme tragedy can have an enormous impact, which can completely change the view someone may have on the world. For me, an experience that changed my view on the world and extremely impacted my life, was getting the opportunity to be a part of a ministry called “Strange Love.” I got the opportunity to look at my life and compare it to the life these struggling immigrant women were living and somehow make a change. This life changing experience helped me to look at my life and my love for others with a totally different perspective.
This experience happened 4 years ago while I was on a mission trip in a neighborhood in New York City called Williamsburg. My youth group and I would walk 12 blocks everyday carrying heavy bags full of clothes, shoes, waters and different foods to this neglected street corner. This corner was full of hopeless, scared immigrant women willing to do anything to make a dime. Watching these women willingly get into the car with a stranger, not knowing what they could be getting themselves into, made me nauseous. I could never imagine being as desperate as these women appeared to be. Every single day these women stand on this corner hoping for someone to drive up and take them with them. This ministry is called “Strange Love” because we just simply love on these desperate women, and to most people this seems so strange. But this entire experience changed my life and how I love others in a whole new way. 
As a result, the effects this had on me stayed with me for a long time. Not knowing if I would ever see the women who got into that beat-up van with that complete stranger ever again scared me. I knew I wanted to help these women, but I was not sure how I could. These women were hard to speak to at first being so nervous and skittish. This showed me how pitiful some situations were for these women and the awful experiences they have been through. Getting the chance to speak to these women in their own language and learn about them is what meant the most to me. I learned that most of these ladies were in the United States without their families just to make money for their families. They would send everything they were making back home to support them in any way. Seeing the benevolence in their eyes, knowing they were doing this to make every penny for their families still broke my heart. 
Although we could not help all these women, we were able to reach many of them just by showing them love and how much we cared for them. Most of these women did not speak or know any English, therefore we would learn worship songs in their language and sing with them. We also learned keywords to communicate with them. What I thought benefitted them the most was teaching them English words or phrases to help them in certain situations, such as “help” or even “no, I will not do that.” By helping these women in life, it helped me gain knowledge of other cultures, but most of all it showed me how important love is for everyone. 
 Therefore, I now see how important love is in life no matter what culture, and I try to show love through everything I do. This experience showed me many things about life itself, but I am choosing to use what I learned and experienced to better my life. I hope that I helped these women in the same ways they helped me. Through this experience I felt sorrow as well as excitement, but most of all I felt strange love. Having felt these emotions and seeing how they can be used to help others is what impacted my life the most throughout this entire experience.  
