			         Comparison/Contrast: Friday Night Lights
	Friday Night Lights is a very interesting story that many southern towns can relate to. The story takes place in a small town, Odessa, Texas, where almost all of its citizens are die-hard football fans. The town shows up every game night to support their local high school football team, the Permian Panthers. Businesses close, programs are canceled, and people really make a huge deal of football. Football seems to be more than just a simple sport in Texas. Just as they do the game, they also make a huge deal of their football players. The book and the movie are similar in these aspects, but the two also share major variations some of which include symbols of racial differences, triumph, and unity. 
	The book gave some great detail about the town of Odessa and its people, while the movie only shared a few of these details. The book depicted the town as primarily known for their oil rigs, but it also points out the tradition of the town, some of which were mentioned earlier. Most of these traditions were meant for a specific group of people, the white middle class. The movie slightly touches on this detail. The movie focuses more on the differences between the town of Odessa and neighboring town or areas of Texas, instead of the difference between the actual citizens of Odessa. In the book, the author explains how typical the African American and Latino communities do not participate or even visit the downtown area of Odessa. In the movie, the football players, black and white, are seen all over town together, sharing meals and even carpooling. The depiction of the town in the movie seemed to be much lighter and calmer than that of the book. 
	Now throughout the book, it is clear who the major characters are, in fact, the author breaks down the background of each character and their importance to the story. This is one detail that the movie leaves out. It focuses heavily on a few people such as Boobie Miles, the star running back on the team. In both the movie and book, Boobie is hurt in what seems like the first game of the season and struggles to get back on the field completely healed. In the book, it entailed how hard Boobie worked to get back to the game, in the movie we only see him going to the doctors and disobeying his doctor’s orders. The team was clearly under a lot of pressure with expectations from the community, and this definitely affected them as young men, teenagers, and students. The players select the same energy as they supporters for the sport. 
	The community that is filled with supporters, of which many are parents and former athletes themselves. In this movie, one of the players runs into an alumni panther and is reminded of what life is like after football. The man tells him that, football will become a memory of his and after that it's only memories and babies. This gives the idea that a lot of the town lives vicariously through the team. They use the experience of sitting in the audience watching their team win or lose is a way for them to live out this dream. This seems to be one of Boobie’s fears as a result of his injury. He did not want to end up like those in his community only living through a dream that was once theirs and now passes down to the next generations. In the book, Boobie’s uncle, LV, explains his football grams and he allowed those dreams to become his dream for his nephew. This idea is what seems to keep the team connected to its supporters. It seems to be what keeps the stands filled with people each week to cheer the team on. It also seems to be the underlying cause for expectations between the community and the team.
	The book and the movie are both very interesting in how they each describe the story of a high school football team that only wants victory in all aspects of their lives. The book was written in 1990 and it definitely seems to depict the truths of that time fearlessly. The movie, on the other hand, seems to try to blur many of the facts or even downplay some of the major events that the book covers. Although it does show a few things, such as the decision making of where the playoff game will be played for common ground between the Panthers and a team of majority black. The book and the movie are both great tools to reflect symbols of racial differences, triumph, and unity.