	Having the privilege of showing someone my hometown would allow me to give them an insight on why that place has such a big spot in my heart. Growing up out of state has given me the chance to travel and see more places than most people. My person of interest to take along on this trip would have to be my boyfriend, Casey. The culture in Arizona is so drastically different from the south’s that it would make for an enjoyable change in scenery. The places I would show him would be where I would go to as a child, restaurants, and going to visit my dad’s family.
	Taking Casey would give him a look into where I was born and raised and the way I grew up. The playgrounds my family and I would ride our bikes to, the skating rink that was the hotspot for birthday parties, and the house I called home for eleven years. Living almost directly in the middle of Anytown, you have the perks of growing up in a neighborhood. I would show him where my old friends houses were and the alleyway behind our house that we would ride our bikes down. The roller-skating rink was the place to be in my pre-teen years; I would take Casey to a Friday Night Lights skate where the referees on the rink would play games and allow song requests at the DJ booth. If we wanted to have a day at the park we had to have a free night; the only part of the day you could go down a slide without getting third degree burns on your legs. My family and I would ride our bikes to one of the two major parks that had the best playgrounds and basketball courts. I would take Casey to the park we called the “purple park,” thanks to its iconic bright purple playground. These spots all have sentimental meaning to me and I would love to share those experiences with my boyfriend. 
	The west coast is known for its fair share of restaurants and fast food joints that are not available in the east. Jack-in-the-box is one of the many fast food places to choose from and my dad would take us there when they had their dollar taco days. A place that I would have to take Casey to on more than one occasion would be a place called “Peter Piper Pizza”; this is one of the more well-known pizza places with a giant arcade and prize area. The last food place I would take him was my Great Grandmothers favorite place to eat called “Garcia’s.” A true authentic Mexican food restaurant to show him what real Mexican food is. Food, being a major part of everyone’s life, is where most of my family bonding happened and where I could show and tell Casey the memories we had at those places.
	Arizona is not just where I was born but it is where the entirety of my dad’s side of the family lives. I would take Casey to the closer relatives’ houses where we had giant gatherings for Thanksgiving and Christmas. The house we spent the most time at was my Grandfather’s house in Anyville. Him and his wife had the biggest house out of all the Does and had an in-ground pool for the cousins to go swim in. I would take my boyfriend to my Grandfather’s house to show old pictures and have him meet the relatives and share stories as well. A big part of my life was the amount of socialization from family members and the party’s that we had to spend time with one another. I would want to include Casey in that at least once to show him the closeness we all had.
	Arizona and Casey, being held so dear to my heart, combines for the perfect opportunity to display my love for both. The memories and places I could share with him would make for not only a fun trip, but an extremely meaningful one. Taking Casey is the perfect way of spreading my thoughts and my past to a new person to allow them to know more about me.