Going into my senior year of high school, our high school football coaches had a meeting with the team. They talked to us about the expectations that they had for us in the upcoming year. So the whole team excited and ready to start the new season. Keep in mind I said season. Then the first workout of the summer everybody was there and ready to put in the work to make us a great team. We are all jumping around and pushing ourselves. 

The first two week of summer workouts go by and we still have a good amount of players coming to workouts. Then two more weeks go by and there are less and less people coming to the workouts. So all the seniors football players got together and had a meeting to see if we could get people to come to workouts. The next week there was still no one coming to workouts. We did not know what to do so we gave up for the rest of the summer until the season got here.
	
So the season gets here and we are fixing to have are first practice and everybody is there. Everybody has the same energy they did at the beginning of the summer. So i am thinking like is this energy gonna be temporary or is it here to last and win us the championship. Once again the first two weeks go by and everything is still going good. At this point it looks like were going to have a good season.
	
	We get to the first game week and everybody at practice is walking around and not really putting in any effort at practice. Everyone is just ready for the game to get here. So next it is game day and now all of a sudden everybody is hype for the game. The game starts and from the first time the ball is snapped to the last time the ball is snapped we get whooped by the other team. We get in the locker room and everybody is mad. Everyone is arguing and blaming each other. Coach comes in there and says “guys i do not know how you all expect to win any games if your not gonna work and try in practice”. 

	This changed how i saw and did things for the rest of my life. He was basically saying that if you do not put in the work when nobody is watching then how do expect to succeed when it is go time. And from that day forward and have did my best at whatever i was doing no matter if it counted or not. It was important for me to here this because what he was saying is bigger than sports it goes with life.