
“Time For Service” 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          “‘ Madam Sir sees, Department of Corrections””. 
                                                                    H501 states, “there should be less time in                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                            solitary confinement,  as  for the Department of                                                                  
                                                                         Corrections, I’m in strong affirmation of this bill.””


  While I was going through my emails on January 15, 2018,  one read, “Congratulations on your appointment to lead the Department of Corrections and serve on the Youth Governor’s Cabinet’. Within the email it stated;” a weekend of officers training, a luncheon with Governor Kay Ivey and my counterpartner, Commissioner Jefferson Dunn and lastly, time for congressional debate which is defined as a mock legislative competition where students draft bills  and resolutions , which they and their peers later debate and vote to pass into law. Let me take you on an adventure where serving on the Youth Governor’s Cabinet will forever be memorable.   
 
“” All in favor for H501 say
 (I) 22’ not in favor say (NAH) 18’.
 It appears that the (I's) have it. 
Congratulations”” 
  






   As I got myself prepared for officers’ training, I knew it was time for service to the youth of Alabama. The first night was an introduction to who you were, what was your  bill about and learning background of your department. During the time, I was a high school senior from Anytown, Alabama, I had written my bill about “ Juveniles spending less time in solitary confinement”, which provided specific details on how the bill can get passed, and I served as Youth Commissioner for the Department of Corrections. The second day  was full of ebullient young leaders sitting in the chambers, watching a debate amongst Alabama senators, discussing the details of each bill and why it should be passed into law. As for the third day, it was time to say our farewells and get prepared for debate. 

        




       A month later, it was time for a luncheon with Governor Kay Ivey and countepartner Commissioner Dunn. For the first half of the day, there I was eating fried chicken and red beans from Popeye’s with Governor Kay (who had hot sauce in her bag) and Commissioner Dunn. The luncheon was amazing, but it was time I took  a tour of my department. During my tour, I had the ability to discuss some  issues with Commissioner Dunn that would help me later on in the chambers. Taking on the position as Youth Commissioner, was explained that the task “wasn’t going to be easy but it will be accomplished’’  - said by Commissioner Dunn. As I gathered the information to take to the chambers for debate, it was time I visited  a women’s prison. Being able to visit Julia Tutwiler Prison for Women made me become very passionate about my role a commissioner. While at Tutwiler, I had the ability to tour the prison and be questioned by a death row inmate,  “ Why you here BITCH ? “ My heart might have jumped outside my body,  but the experience was worth it. Overall, the soul food was great and the prison tour was frightening.  


    







  Now,  it was time for debate. The process was very long, from listening to all the bills in the small committees to gathering the results together . The reason for the small committees  was to determine which bills will be debated upon in the chambers. After the small committees, selected bills were chosen to be either debated in the House of Representative first or the Senate chambers. In order for a bill to become a law, it has to be passed in both chambers and signed by your governor. As for a cabinet member, I had the opportunity to move from chamber to chamber, only to debate upon bills that fell under my department. Throughout the whole debate, you’re  heard from several different intelligent students, that were passionate about their bill. And as for the department of corrections, six bills were passed into law. 

    In conclusion, my experience as a youth commissioner will forever be remembered. Officers training, taught hard work definitely pays off. Meeting students from all over the State of Alabama also helped me  understand that everyone has a different idea, which will later on become a law. Eating with Governor Kay Ivey and Commissioner Dunn was amazing. Good thing she had some hot sauce;  the chicken was dry a bit. Commissioner Dunn  not only made me more knowledgeable about the Corrections department, but offered me a job once I graduate from college. Visiting Julia Tutwiler prison for women  made me realize those women really need help and as a future correctional officer, I will  help by giving more programs. When debating, things get heated very quickly but again as for the department of corrections, six bills were passed into law.         
                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                          “‘ Congratulations, H501 
                                                                                                              Has been passed in LAW ”’