A Travelling Heart
	A wise man, Henry Miller, once said, “One's destination is never a place but always a new way of seeing things.” My mom taught me that on our first trip out of the states. She was a world traveller who wanted to show her kids the world. On that trip out of the country, I saw the world through her eyes and let me tell you it was a true sight to see. I could not get enough of travelling after that.  After my mom passed away, my love for travelling was one of the many ways that made people see her in me. The question I was asked was where I would go, who I would take and why. To answer that question, I would go to Europe with my mom. I would take my mom because I miss her, it would be a great time to catch up, and also she has never been so I would show her around.
	I chose Europe because she has never been! Ever since the summer of 8TH Grade when I went to Europe she has always wanted to go. My mom tried to go with us but you had to be a part of the organizing to be a chaperone. So I would meet her there and show her all the places I have been! She has shown me a lot about being kind and brave, the least I could do was show her Europe. So to Europe, we go. First, we will have a picnic under the Eiffel tower, then take a bike ride across  Pont des arts, Lastly, walk through the Louvre museum. Next stop to Switzerland to eat the finest of chocolate, Hike Jungfraujoch and take in the beautiful view at the top. Then we will jet off to Italy! We will start the day off in Rome by touring the Colosseum, then Florence to looking at the beautiful Cathedral. We then will continue the day by taking a picture of us keeping the leaning tour of Pisa up and ending the day by the Trevi Fountain, wishing for what we truly desire. Last stop of our European adventure  I would take her to Austria to meet a great friend of my and now pen-pal, Lea Bencer. Lea would show her how they leave Just like she showed me.
	There are a lot of things I want to tell my mom. She has missed a lot of adventures and experiences that I know she would have loved. I would have to start from rolling night to graduation and then tell her about college. I would tell her about how I won Miss CHS at prom, How I was Vice president of my class and lastly how I cried during my speech. I have accomplished a lot for my high school career and I know she would have been proud. Not only will we catch up with my life but her life as well. I want to hear all about heaven and if it is like how we Image it.  I want to hear about her life as an angel, and if she is a guardian?  I want to make sure that all the years, hours, minutes and seconds that we missed were talked about. Every tiny detail of the time lost, I want to know everything. Not only do I want to know it all, but I also want to be able to do it in a place that is dear to me and one-day dear to her as well.
	One of the main reason I picked my mom is that I simply miss her. I miss the simplest things like the smell of her, or her voice, to the most complex things like the way she says my name or the way she gets excited about all the good things I have done. It is not easy missing a piece of your heart. It is hard when everything around you reminds you of the person you miss. There are a lot of things that I know I need my mom for that she would not be able to be there for the things that your mom should be there for, like picking a wedding dress, a prom dress, or your first heartbreak. Not only do I miss her but I would love to catch up with her.
	The question that was asked was if I had one place to go where would I go, who would I take and why? The answer is a no-brainer, I thought of the person I missed the most in the world and took them to my favourite place to be at. I wanted to take time to learn all about what we missed in each other’s life. I am not sure how much time we would have but I am sure that sharing this adventure would be worthwhile. That is my only wish is to be able to talk to her again, hug her again and most importantly explore with her again. “you must go on adventures to find out where you truly belong.” Sue Fitzmaurice may have said it but my mom surely lived by it and taught me to live this way as well.
