Friday Night Lights Essay
	Friday Night Lights is a book and movie that portrays a variety of themes surrounding the game of football. These themes are eligible to be compared due to the similar perspectives of football in both the book and movie. Although this is true, there a few different perspectives between the book and movie that allows them to be contrasted as well. These themes all reveal the true mindsets of the people of Odessa, Texas. The major themes of both the book and movie are pressure, obsession, and racism. 
	Firstly, the theme of pressure is shown frequently in both the book and movie. There is pressure put on the coach and players. The players also pressured each other at practice. “If you get hurt, that’s fine, you’re hurt. But if you get a lick, and you’re gonna lay there and whine about it, you don’t belong on the field anyway” (Bissinger, 60). Coach Gaines is pressured by the people of the town. For example, in the movie there is a scene where he is stopped by the sheriff while with his family. The sheriff gives him an awkward ultimatum about winning the game. It was almost as if  Coach Gaines was being indirectly threatened. The football players each deal with pressure individually. Mike Winchell is pressured by his mother to have a flawless season and to obtain a football scholarship. Donnie Billingsley is pressured by his father to be as good of a player as he was in his football days. “Water bug” is pressured by Boobie Miles to wear Nikes and to try to be more like him. Almost every individual dealing with football in this book and movie is personally pressured by their surrounding factors. 
	Secondly, obsession is another major theme that is widely portrayed in the book and movie. Every person in the town of Odessa, Texas is obsessed with football. Each football player is obsessed with getting a scholarship, because that is the only way to escape the town of Odessa. The obsession is so bad, it is almost as if the regular civilians want the state title more than the players and coaches themselves. This obsession is consistent throughout both the book and movie and increases with each game. Another example of obsession that is greatly illustrated is Boobie’s narcissistic characteristics.”Boobie himself was well aware that all eyes were posed on him this season, and while he luxuriated in  it, he seemed almost carefree about it” (Bissinger, 36). In the movie, he likes to talk in first-person when referring to himself. He also manipulates his team mates by bragging about how he is the best. “Although this is true, his self-obsession is negative and causes conflict with his team mates. 	
Thirdly, racism is a very crucial theme that is demonstrated in the book and movie.  In the book, there is a chapter titled Black and White. “School desegregation, imposed by a federal court over bitter protests, did not take place until 1982” (Bissinger, 75). Racism is also shown in the Dallas Carter game scene during the movie. The football team at Dallas Carter contains almost all black athletes. These football players are racist towards the players of other races on Permian’s team. Racism becomes aggressive towards Permian’s Caucasian athletes and Brian Chavez is referred to as “Mexican”. The book and movie show that racial issues can take place on a higher scale, especially when football is involved.
	In conclusion, both the book and movie portray a widescale of themes concerning football. The themes of pressure, obsession, and racism all greatly contribute to the concept. Pressure is shown by the towners and parents of players. Obsession is illustrated in two ways. The town is obsessed with football and Boobie is obsessed with himself. Also, racism is a major theme that is shown by all races in the book and movie. Some of the details are illustrated more than others depending on whether they came from the book or the movie. Even with this being so, all of these themes show that football and everything concerning it was the most important thing in Odessa, Texas. 