Five stars for Friday Night Lights by H.G. Bissinger
	We can all agree that High School Football is one of the top entertaining sports to watch. But have you ever seen what happened behind the scenes? Have you ever thought about the backstory of other players? Or have you just watched and not payed any attention to anything else going on in their minds? Well, this amazing book, Friday Night Lights (FNL) by H.G. Bissinger shows you inside the story. The book nudges you to keep going. It makes you sit at the edge of your seat begging to read more and know more. May I say, five stars for Bissinger! This text shows the reality of football, it doesn’t hold back on information, and of course it keep everyone on their feet.
	Do you really know what is going on behind the scenes? Do you know the reality of football? Well, good thing is if you do not, then after reading this book you surely would. The book shows emotions of the other characters and their feelings. It shows backstories of the players and their family. It even has a strong father x son theme throughout the book. It even deals with the obsession that the parents have, to live vicariously through their children. This book, is what changed high school football. For the better and made the reality safer for the kids. 
	The amazing thing about this book that it does not hold back on information. Bissinger shows that there is racism, way too much pride, obsession, and the wanting to escape from the high school football life. With racism, he does have derogatory terms, but it shows how people view others. Or how just because Permian High Football team has mostly black players that they have an advantage. The book shows self-pride and the football players pride of winning. Boobie Miles had the biggest and nasties pride of all. But, after his ACL injury It quickly dropped. And everyone in the team, mostly parents and coaches have way too big pride in accomplishing state. Obsession? Obsession with winning. That is everywhere in this book. Not only is it the Permian Panthers but it is other schools. Even other scenes in the book. Not everyone who plays football wants to play football, especially Mike Winchell. If you read the book you should know that Mike does not really have confidence in his abilities, nor does he have confidence that he even wants to do high school football. But, whenever he was right beside his dad on his death bed, the last thing his dad said to him was, “Play Football.” Which is the only reason why he wont leave football, but he just wants to escape it every second of the day. Which also brings up the fact that these students also want too escape the shadow of their parents. They are tired of having to live up to their parents expectations just because of who they used to be. To where these kids watch their parents live vicariously through them. 
	Lastly, the way that the books keeps you on your feet. How do I start? Should I state when Boobie broke his ACL during a jamboree? Or when the preacher was praying at the watermelon feed, that he prayed for winning state and not his players safety? How about that the biggest statement made in the book was, “Going to State in 88’?” Let’s just say without ruining the book for anyone, that this book is just amazing. It has you want more and has you trying to pull yourself up with one finger while you are dangling off a cliff. This book has you begging for your own mercy. It has you grieving for character and hating others. 
	What else can I say about this book? With the obsessions, the pride, the racism, the masculinity, it is so difficult to just write about everything that makes the book amazing. Before I read the book, a few years ago my brother and I started watching the tv show. Now that I read the book and watched the movie, I missed a lot. The fact that the show is almost nothing like the book disturbs me. The Friday Night Lights show series would have been perfect if not. As I said, five stars for this amazing book. I praise H.G. Bissinger for publishing this book despite what others were telling him and how they were threatening him. Thank you Bissinger. Thank you for showing us the true side of Odessa and their Permian football. Thank you for showing us the truth behind football and not holding back. 
	