People all around the world, move houses for a number of reasons. Situations with jobs and family members can force us to be in desperate need of a change of location. When I was in my sophomore year of high school, my world flipped upside down, or so I thought. It is in no child's dream to leave their old friends behind and make total new ones. High school for me was like a jungle, it is an eat or get eaten world. I thought my world had just ended as I knew it and the last of my high school years were going to be marked with misery and disappointment. Little did I know that I would learn that sometimes life sends you in a new direction that, even though unexpected, may not be that bad. 
It was the summer after my sophomore year of high school, when my mom got engaged, her fiancé lived in another city. When I first heard the news, I was livid. I grew up in a small city of Anytown, around all the same people all the time. The thought of being “the new girl” mad me sick to my stomach, as I am a pretty shy person already. For a while, I was commuting to school from my new house in Anyville, where my mother’s fiancé lived. After my mom decided to officially move my schools to Anyville High School, I thought my life was falling apart.  I had a few friends already which were some girls I had similar schedules to. It was hard meeting new people because the clear majority of students had grown up together, which made me the outsider, however the diversity of the school made the transition smoother. 
Now, think of the friend groups you would imagine when hearing “High School.”  I think of the band players together, and all the cheerleaders being friends, and just your stereotypical setting for secondary school. Since I was on the track team and cheer team, I had a tremendously easier time meeting new people. Although I was not forced to be friends with my track girls, they made me feel at home and brought joy and laughter to the locker room daily. The track girls were pretty well known throughout Anyville so, I felt as if I had a step in the social aspect of the school already. We would train everyday which was a shift from AlnytownHigh school, where I used to attend, so I was already seeing improvement in my running. My mom told me before that North Anyville girls won state two years in a row so, I would be getting better help with track setting me up for college. We practiced every day and I soon learned the importance of consistency. 
Being in a new place humbles yourself. I would not say I had a big head at Anytown, but I was not the most humble. I thought everything was set up for me, and that scholarships for collegiate track were easier than they actually were. My coach, Casey Smith, decided to make me a hurdler when I reached my senior year of track and field. The idea of hurdles was not something I was into however, I made if all the way to state. Weeks after state I had two huge offers from fairly large universities. My decision was with State University, and everything I got was based on my high school track times.   if I had not moved schools, who knows where I would have ended up going for college and where my future would have taken me after that.

