l town called Anytown, Georgia everyone knows everyone. You cannot go into our local Walmart without seeing a friend or even family member down every aisle. Families in Anytown have been here for generations, which means everyone has very similar beliefs, morals, and traditions. There is little to no diversity in this small town. This was the way that I was used to living, this was my “normal”. I was in for one big surprise when I arrived into Los Angeles, California.
When I arrived, the first thing I noticed was not the enormous, beautiful buildings or the tourist sites, it was all of the different people. There were more people in one place than I had ever seen in my life. People of every race and every culture. Each person being exactly whoever and whatever they wanted to be without any care of what anyone else may think. It was intimidating for me, but I was extremely fascinated. I wanted to know each persons story, their culture, and their thoughts.
Driving in Los Angeles is not an option with the crazy traffic. The sidewalks were swarming with people. Everyone who was on the sidewalk seemed to walk as if they were on a mission. They were on their own, yet in a huge crowd. The crowd of people on the sidewalk was like one, but all going in different directions and destinations. If I were to look down from above, we would all look like a million different ants scrambling out of a recently stepped on ant bed. Everything felt crazy and hectic at the same time. The insane part is that I found the calm within the craziness.

Even with all the craziness going on, I still felt calm because everyone was worried about themselves. They did not care about how I looked, how I spoke, or what I was wearing. It was like being in a cubical in a workplace, everyone knows there are others around but their focus is on themselves and what they have to get done. This was so different from what I was used to at home. Anytown locals are like one big family. We are all in each others business. In LA, I was on my own. I had no one to impress. All I had to worry about was myself. To some this may be scary, but I enjoy different and change. Independent was never a word I would use to describe myself, until I visited Los Angeles, California.
My trip California is a very memorable trip to me. Not because of the things I saw or did. It was because I realized who I was and who I wanted to become. I now know I am not nor do I want to be just a small town girl. I want to see and meet different types of people. I want to travel and stay places where I do not know a single soul. Los Angeles is full of inspiration and self realization. It showed me that there is more to this world than my little town of Anytown. 

