Overpaid?
The debate between are actors and athletes overpaid or not it is a conversation that never ends. The debate is currently in heavy favor of the former although the latter still has great points. The side of actors and athletes being overpaid has favorable support because of that I will be taking the side of the opposite. I want to enlighten people about the other side of the spectrum because the argument of being paid the right amount or maybe even the thought of underpaid isn’t talked about enough. Now that I told you what side of the argument I am on. I will preview three points I will use to defend my argument. I will go over the ability to be a draw, being born for their profession, being able to demand base on worth.	The first topic I will discuss is that of being a draw, and how it pertains to this argument.  Actors and athletes get the money they deserve because of their ability to be a draw. What I mean by being a draw is they attract people just off name value through their work and accomplishments. Countless times people have paid astronomical prices and driven insane hours to see some of their favorite athletes and actors.  This ability to be a draw is one reason that separates the average citizen from their infamous counterparts.	The second point I will discuss is that athletes and actors are born for their positions because of this they are naturally better than anyone else who would decide to take up what they are doing as an occupation. While there are schools and camps that can teach you how to be better at acting and sports you aren’t going to be better for someone made for those professions.  In the normal sense of how the world works, the better who are best at what they do eventually make the most money. Being born for a position is something that is out of our hands because of that it creates a skill gap and a pretty obvious one for the most part.  Having a skill that stands out and has a huge disparity between the professionals and the average person warrants large sums of money.		The third point I will discuss is that athletes and actors are able to demand more money based on their worth. In, the fields of acting and sports you leave yourself to the highest bidders who want to give you the most money based on what you can do. For example, actors and athletes can make their demands, and say I will take your deal only if you meet my demands and be successful. Which relates back to a previous point made because if these were not skills that are scare and the majority of the time you have to be born for. These actors and athletes they would not have these huge pay gaps compared to the average person. 	To sum up this essay, actors deserve their pay due to factors the average working-class citizen can do not have or cannot apply to their workforce. Actors and athletes deserve their money, because of drawing power, being born for their position, and demand based on their worth. All those abilities are out of our control because the average citizen does not possess these traits. Therefore, actors and athletes deserve their money.
