Are actors and professional athletes paid too much?
Actors and professional athletes make millions every year. In today’s society that is totally normal to us. But normal is not always okay. I believe that actors and professional athletes get paid way to much for their own good. In comparison to other hard working individuals, the outcome of pay has an overwhelming difference.  I believe that actors and athletes get paid too much because they make more than the people risking their lives for us and the hard working citizens, and they spend it recklessly. 
Firstly, they make more than the people who risk their lives for us everyday. The actors and professional athletes mainly have a job of entertaining the public. What about the people fighting for our freedom, patrolling the streets to keep us safe, and heading straight into fires to save a life? These people who are risking everything for us are making poor pay everyday. Some of these people may even still be struggling to make ends meet for their families. The people keeping this country safe, even for the actors and athletes, are punished in a sense with pay. This to me is the number one reason that athletes and actors make to much.
Secondly, our environment is struggling. While actors and athletes are bringing home much more money than a person needs or could want, there are people who can not afford to eat. Some adults are spending night and day working to provide for their families. Some adults even having to take on multiple jobs. Some of the lower class is struggling to eat and have a place to live even after constantly working a job. To me it just does not seem right that the people working this hard are still struggling, when young children and adults are making millions throwing a football or being videoed advertising a product on television.
Thirdly, the money is being poorly spent. The actors and athletes get in a little over their heads and start impulse buying. That millions of dollars could be spent on good causes, but instead is wasted on Gucci sandals or Lamborghinis. The young adults especially blow through their money. Some very successful actors and athletes end up in debt because of the way they spend like they will never run out of money. 
Overall, these are my beliefs. Some of the actors and athletes do very good with their money and support great causes, but as a whole it seems as though they get paid too much. People risking it all should be rewarded more than a person who scored a touchdown or a lady who cried dramatically for a television show. 