
Changing with the Circumstance
Going back and recalling events from your past can be bitter sweet. There are those occasions what them memory is fond and pleasing, but some are best not rehashed. My entire life I had been used to loosing people from sickness and old age. Wondering back to a circumstance where in the end I had lost another member of my life is not a simple task. How do you come back from a  dreadful experience  completely unchanged? My grandfather or as I called him Poppie died last year of a heart attack. The heart attack was not what flipped my world as I knew it, it was the days, nights, and weeks leading up to it.
My Poppie was a colonel in the military so as you can imagined he was tough and rigid at times during my childhood. He disciplined me multiple time when I was a rambunctious child. He always knew right from wrong and gosh darn he would tell you so. Another quality I can recollect is the immense shape he was in. He worked out every morning making sure to beat the sun and get up first. This was a major factor in why his death was so impactful.  You never suspect the man that rode fifteen miles on his bike every morning to die at the age of sixty-three.         My Poppie loved this certain swing he had back behind his house and one day the brach snapped the wood from the swing hit him in the head. This gave him severe trauma and damage to his brain. Immediately after this event waiting in the hospital hoping and praying he would make it out alive, he got discharged from the hospital. As you can imagine the next few weeks turned into recovery time. My parents were never home and my grandmother became stressed all the time. It got to the point where I had not slept in my bed one time in the week he got home. I slept at my best friend’s house. In addition to all the anxiety I had in my Poppie’s situation, I still had to attend school. It took an enormous emotional toll on me.
Finally, everything was going somewhat smoothly again. My Poppie started to remember most of the words he had lost from the brain bleed. He was speeding down the road of recovery. He defied all the odds that the doctor gave us. I had just mentioned to my friends that he was doing well and should be completely healed within the month. I was happy to have my mom and dad back home. One day we got a call from one of my poppies friends telling us to hurry to the hospital. We loved up in the car not knowing the situation ahead of us. Half way through the car ride I remember the look on moms face went pale and all she said was “He’s gone.”. My dad asked her how she knew and she said she just felt it. We all cried as my dad drove what felt like ninety mph down the road. Sure enough my Poppie had passed away fifteen minutes before we had arrived at the hospital. I begged someone to tell me how or why. It was a random heart attack.
In the end, the loss of my Poppies life made a major impact on mine. For the better, and for the worst. My family is much closer now and that is a positive . Watching my Poppie die will be something I never forget. All the lives he touched shows me the kind of man he truly was, I would be honored to be half the person he was. My grandmother is now my best friend in this entire world. His death brought me closer to her. The largest impact on me was I chose to attend this university, because this school was his favorite place. It is also twenty minutes away from my grandmothers house, and I can take care of her being so close. This experience pulled me closer to God and my family. To answer my first question, no you can not leave a dreadful experience such as mine unchanged. I was just lucky enough to be changed in a positive way. 
