Actors and Athletes
Celebrities make a lot of money, and it is a well-known fact. By looking at some of the most popular professional athletes or actors like Lebron James, Scarlet Johansson, and even the lovable Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson. But what about the benchwarmers? What about the actors that have never gotten a major role? Well luckily for them the demand for entertainment has always been super high. Professional athletes and Actors are paid well because the demand of the market in entertainment, these talented individuals have dedicated their lives to the entertainment business and deserve every cent they have made.
Saying actors and athletes don’t deserve to make millions is like saying Tim Cook doesn’t deserve the billions he has made by being one of the largest investors in Apple. Tim Cook committed his money that he earned and put it towards a business that he saw a future in. These actors and athletes may not have money to invest but, they have their talent. Just as Tim Cook risked some of his wealth to help build Apple, these actors and athletes have done the same. Investing time into practicing and getting better at something they want to pursue as a career. An aspiring actor trying to make it big will find it isn't that simple. There are countless auditions that will face trial and error trying to get your name out there or gather the experience necessary to take on large roles in movies, plays, or tv shows. Athletes also take huge risks more so on their body though. Collegiate level athletes working to make it to the national level in the United States are lucky enough if they have made it this far, without any long-term injuries. Assuming the athlete is good enough to play at a national level, athletes typically do not obtain a serious degree in college and try to take an easier route to make the grades. So, these athletes can truly only be successful if they are lucky enough to stay in good conditions, and I think that is worth their salary.
Benchwarmers in the NFL make approximately 460,000 dollars a year by contract. With actors it is harder to judge, they may have side rolls in a tv series or a few movies happening at once. Either way, they are trying to make money. Off-seasons for sports contain over forty hours of work with the team a week. That is a full-time job, some may say, “all they do is play a sport, my kid does that for fun". Well, there's a little more to it than just that, these are grown men and women competing, these athletes performing poorly can result in a backlash from the press or future loss of contracts. People don’t get worked up over a recreational center league game like a national level sport. So, the athletes constantly work to stay conditioned and on top of their game. Like actors, because of their busy schedules, they lose privileges like leisure. On the internet, you constantly see celebrities in Fiji, on a cruise, at a high-class restaurant. They work for that, that is the equivalent to their vacation. It is easily affordable to them, yes, but being constantly busy they never really get the opportunity to spend their money either. These athletes and actors also lose time they could be spending with family or friends and to some that are more important than their job, but it keeps their family comfortable. Actors that are in tv series are constantly pressed for time with their roles. Memorizing lines, blocking the areas of where they transition to. What their character is doing? Or who their character is? The life of an actor can get mentally straining and difficult to manage. 
When applying for a job, there is a job application. The applicant goes up against somewhere from five to hundreds of other applicants. That is a pretty steep chance of the applicant getting the job they want. They may want the job because it pays well, the benefits look nice, they think the job simply just suits them. Now imagine being an athlete or an actor. There are millions of people going for the same job, it’s just harder to make it as a professional athlete or actor because it pays well firstly and secondly, the benefits to be a well-respected athlete or actor are great jobs. But athletes possess certain skills that the average joe does not. Like jumping a forty-six-inch vertical, that is not an easy thing to do and may not benefit you in the office but can make a huge difference in a game. Or being able to sing, some roles may require a gifted voice to hit certain vocal ranges. Yes, with today’s technology they could just overlap the actor with an amazing singer. But vocals could make the chances of an actor getting the part greater. Since the chances of these athletes or actors being successful are actually so slim, I understand why they are paid such a high wage.
Athletes and actors both face difficulties in their field of work, athletes will constantly workout and train their mind and body to accel in their sport. And actors will shape their mind and body to suit a role they hope to acquire. But getting the job is truly the hard part in this line of work. Working your way up to make a name for yourself. Athletes and actors make a lot of money, but for what they put themselves through to get their job I think they deserve it. I know from experience learning roles in plays can be difficult, so people that can manage it as a profession I respect. As for athletes, life is a game. And they have simply just discovered a better way to play the game of life.