
	
	
	
	What would you do if you could bring anyone you wish to you and speak with them?
Superheroes would most likely be someone’s first choice and that is the case for this writing. While there are many choices for many different reasons, there is one in particular that the world could benefit from. I think that Superman would be a great character to speak to. Superman could help stop crime, be a role model, and be a great person to have a conversation with. 
	With Superman’s abilities and superpowers, he would be a great help to stopping crimes. Not only could Superman stop current crimes, but also future ones. The thought of Superman being in your city fighting crime is alone enough to deter people from committing them. Superman also would not be limited to one area with his great mobility. Instead of Superman only fighting crime in one city, he could easily go from city to city doing the same thing. 
	Superman would be a great role model in current times. Many younger people are influenced into having role models who do not fit what a role model should be. If Superman were to be here, many would look up to him and be influenced. Younger people would have new dreams and goals because of Superman’s presence. Older people could also be influenced into doing good and giving help when needed.



	Superman would be a great person to talk to since he is from another world. He could tell you all about the things he has done and people he has met. Superman could tell you about all the villains he has encountered and defeated. Superman has also died and came back to life which would be an interesting story to hear from him. Everyone would also be curious of what he thinks about our world and how things are going here. No matter who it is, anyone could have a long conversation with him. 
	While there are many superheroes and characters that would be interesting to see in this world, Superman would be an amazing person to bring here. Superman could influence everything in a positive and meaningful way. He can help people and cities by fighting crimes and helping the needy. He could also be a positive role model for everyone of all ages. Finally, he can be an interesting and fun person to talk to no matter who is talking to him.