Are actors and professional athletes paid too much?
	In today’s society, professional actors and athletes are very well indeed being paid too much for what they do. Everyone’s occupation is important in some way, but some more important than others. Such as doctors, nurses, and teachers. Doctors actually save people lives and get paid less compared to actors and athletes that are simply just entertainers. Not only doctors but many other occupations are being paid less than what actors and athletes are being paid. Those performers don’t save nor help anyone, they don’t work as hard as others, and they also take away most of society’s money. Those are three reasons why they get paid too much for what they do. 
	A reason why actors and athletes shouldn’t get paid as much as they do is that they don’t help or save anyone. Anyone can entertain a crowd, or play a sport. Akshay Kumar, highest paid actor, a net worth of forty million dollars. Floyd may weather, highest paid athlete, a net worth of two hundred eighty-five million dollars. Kumar practices roles and May weather trains and fights in a boxing ring just for an audience’s amusement. So why should they get praised if they are so beneficial to anyone besides entertainment? 
	Entertainers do not work nearly as hard as others such as; doctors, firefighters, military, and teachers. An actor and athlete life is quite simple compared to these warriors. Firefighters risk their lives every single day to save us. As we know, doctors work hard every day to save people’s lives as well. Teachers help us succeed, and help us get to where we want to be in life. The military is one of the most underpaid jobs, yet they fight for our country to keep us safe. Every one of these heroes helps us in some sort of way in life. They are the ones that actually make a difference in our society, not actor and athletes.
	Essentially, actors and athletes are paid by the people that support them. Those people pay hundreds of dollars to see their favorite player or actor entertain them. It all about their performance to their audience. Whereas doctors, nurses, and a teacher gets paid the same salary no matter what they do differently or the same. Sad to say, but entertainers are applauded for making the crowd enthusiastic. This society is giving all their praise to enjoyable moments rather than giving their praise to those who help us in life day to day.
	As we know by now, athletes and actors are where a majority of the society money is going to. We as a society give them millions of dollars per show or game when they perform. Hundreds of dollars are spent per person to see our favorite actor or player, just for our entertainment. That money could be used on something much more useful for us. However what makes entertainers different from people with good job and degrees? We have to make a difference in order to see a change in this area. Society complains that Professional actors and athletes make too much money, but we are the ones giving them that money!