Be Able to Perform!
	It was a Saturday night and my first night shift with the County Sheriff’s Office. After eating my dinner I soon realized how hard it would be for me to stay awake. I knew that night was going to be a long night.
	Changing from day shift to night shift is already a challenge for everyone. I was used to being up all day and sleeping at night, but that switched. It is hard for me just to even stay up all night, not including responding to calls. But I knew no matter what, I still have to be able to function for the public.
	My partner logged me in on the computer and handed me the keys to the patrol car. I was excited to drive and have some control over what we did. This was always a job that I wanted to do and was getting my first night shift experience. I checked all of my gear again just to be sure everything worked properly for me to use. As well as to make sure I did not forget anything for my uniform. I feel like it is also important for me to look neat in my uniform so that people would respect me a little bit more.
	For the first few hours of patrol there was really nothing happening, since there was an Alabama football game that night. Usually everyone is in watching the game, not breaking any laws. But on this night Alabama lost their game and I knew there would be trouble. About 5 minutes after the game ended other deputies around the county were getting calls. I was driving towards another deputy in case he needed help on his call when suddenly one of the worst calls came on my computer. I looked over and saw that dispatch sent us a shooting call about 10 minutes away from our location. Then I heard our priority tone go off over the radio which is just a high pitch beep. Dispatch notified us that a male shot a family member and that he was potentially holding the family hostage. I  quickly turned the car around and rushed to the house as well as other deputies. Some of the local police were responding as well. On our way there, my adrenaline was pumping and I was trying to make a plan of what to do when we arrived. I had the lights and sirens going the whole ride there and reached a speed of 130mph on the highway. We were first on scene and as we got out I saw the front door was open. Then I heard the male screaming out the door. Soon our negotiator and other backup units arrived. The negotiator was able to talk the subject into letting the family go. As the family came out I saw someone else run out the back. I realized it was our suspect and began to chase him. That is when I ran into one of the scariest situations ever. I could not get any service for my radio to tell everyone the updates of the pursuit. As I was running I was thinking to myself to control the situation and not let the situation control me. So, finally I got service and notified the direction we were running. I was getting tired but I saw my backup coming to help. Finally, the guy fell and I was hoping he would not pull a gun. I saw him start to turn my way and that is when I tackled him and we fought for roughly a minute. This guy was drunk and strong so he was a big challenge. But I stuck with my training and was able to control him until my backup arrived. We then found a gun inside his pants and I was thinking how scary and bad that could have been. But my training got me through it and my team was there for me. Not only did we put a shooter in jail, but we saved a family from a tragedy.
	I learned that in this job you never know what will happen. Everyday can bring a new challenge. I also learned that I have to be able to perform the job even when I am tired. Later the next week the family thanked us for doing what we did. I may be hated by a lot of people for what I do, but there are just as many who appreciate what we do. Also I know that my buddies will always have my back when I am in a tough situation.
