
				Essay 1: Final Draft

Everyone,  at  some  point  in  time,  has  an  experience  which  brings  out  these  animalistic  qualities  within  them.  An  instinct  humans  share  with  animals  is  the  need  to protect  one’s  offspring,  which  is  widely  known  as  motherly  instincts.  A  physical  trait humans  share  with  animals  is  the  ability  to  grow  or  feel  the  need  to  improve  to overthrow  or  take  down  a  monarch  figure.  A  mental  trait  humans  and  animals  share  is  a sense  of  danger.  Fear  is  the  driving  force  for  a  person  or  animal  to  become  cautious  and  sometimes  paranoid.  The  connection  between  humans  and  the  natural  world  are  as vast  as  the  many  animals  within  them.  This  leaves  us  with  numerous  possibilities  of humans  and  animals  sharing  very  similar  raw  instincts,  intense  physicality  and  strong mental  states.

The needs to protect one’s offspring is a trait  humans  and  animals  share.  We  are always  concerned  about  every  single  part  of  their  lives,  like  how  baby  kangaroos  stay  in their  parents  pouch  until  their  ready  to  live  on  their  own.  I  feel  a  similar  way  to  the baby  kangaroo  because  my  Parents  would  always  want  to  know  where  I  am  and  what  I doing,  They  always  left  hundreds  of  messages,  even  when  I  told  them I  was  at  a  sports event  for  high  school.  A  Parent's  love  for  their  Children  is  unconditional  and  if  any Parents  feel  otherwise,  they  can’t  call  themselves  real  Parents.

	Humans  and  animals   have  very  different  body  structures, but  similar  physical traits. There  comes  a  time  when  both  humans  and  animals  feel  the  need  to  grow  and  get  stronger. For  humans,  it  is  simply  competitiveness, but  for  animals,  it  means  survival. Some  people,  like  myself  have  the  need  to  be  physically  stronger  than  the next  person  because  when  you're  playing  sports,  you  have  to  physically  overwhelm  the  person  in  front  of  you. It  is  a  good  feeling  when  you  have  someone  in  front  of  you  that  can’t  do  anything  to  stop  you.  An  example  of  an  animal  that  I  emulate  while  participating  in  sports  activities  is  the  gorilla. The  ferociousness  and  physicality  of  a  gorilla   is  a  good  example  because  they  fight  with  one  another  when  another  wants  to  take  on  the  role  of  being  leader. Much  like  humans,  gorillas  have  that  feeling  of  wanting  to  be  in  charge.

	All  humans  and  animals  can  sense  when  the  are  in  danger  of  being  injured  or killed. We  all  have  that  need  to  feel  safe  throughout  our  daily  lives. An  animals  daily  life  however,  can  be  unpredictable  and  filled  dangerous  moments. Much  like  the  smaller  animals  in  the  animal   kingdom,  such  as  rodents,  have  highly  developed  sensory  organs  that  enable  them  to sense  and  survive   danger. Like  most  people,  we  would  feel  the  need  to  protect  one  another  when  a dangerous  situation  arises, but  as  for  me, I  would  be  as  far  away  from  the  danger  as  I  possibly  can. One  time,  when  I  lived  in  Africa,   a  bunch  of  my  classmates  found  a  burrough  full  of  snakes,  maybe  about  nine  or  ten  snakes. I  was  concerned  for  my  safety   as  soon  as  I  heard  the  loud whispers  of  a  snakes hiss. My  classmates  did  not  share  my  concerns  and  grabbed  the  closet  sticks  they  could  find  and  started  poking  the  snakes. Naturally,  this  angered  the  snakes  which  resulted  in  one  of  my  classmates  being  bitten  in  the  leg.

	Throughout  life,  you  encounter  different  moments  which  force  you  to  bring  out  our  more  animalistic  urges. Like  myself,  I  could  one  day  be  in  the  boxing  ring  or  playing  tug  of  war  at  a  picnic,  which  brings  out  strong  gorilla  like  qualities  and  another  day  be  running  and  hiding  like  a  squirrel  runs  from  a  car  or  motorcycle. So  just  maybe,  having  a  mascot  of  a  strong  animals  like  a  lion  or  jaguar  is  better  than  having  a  mascot  like  a  mouse  or  squirrel. As  far  as  motivation  goes,  An  animal  that  is  higher  up  in  the  animal  kingdom  will  inspire  you  to  play  better  or  have  better  school  spirit  than  other  animals  on  the  bottom  of  the  food  chain. “ Beyond  all  the  obvious  reasons  we  choose  animals  as  symbols  for  our  sporting  teams - their  incredible  energy  and  muscle,  grace  and  strength….”.  This  means  that  representation  for  a  sports  team  is  crucial  to  the  success  of  the  team.

	

