

Many Individuals Can Escape Poverty When They Are Born Into It.

	The severity of poverty varies depending on the economic vitality of the country in which it occurs. In more economically developed countries such as the united States, Europe etc. there are many government services provided to alleviate poverty. Less economically developed countries, however have fewer resources to devote too helping the poor. People who are suffering from poverty do not have the sufficient money to live an adequate standard living, however, many individuals can escape poverty when they are born into it through education, better jobs and perseverance.

	The best thing that people do when they wants to move away from poverty is by getting themselves educated. Pursuing an education and gets training into different skills is  most valuable measure to take to deviate from poverty. It is important because this will an edge they get against those that do not have it. Studies have shown that education has a great impact on both economic growth and poverty. For example, the Jackson family in the movie Mudbound they were not rich but they make sure their children were educated so that at the end of the day they will not be like their parents that have been working in the farm. An other example is Ursula Burns in an exclusive interview by Lisa Fischer of CNN explains “that many people told me I had three strikes against me: I was black. I was a girl. And I was poor,” But Burns mother made sure her daughter got a good education, which put her on the path to success. 

	Another way people escape poverty is getting a better job. Getting a job that pays the bills and take care of all expenses is a key to deviating from poverty. For instance in the novel, The Immortal Life of Henrietta lacks, when Day figured out about the job opportunity in Turner Station was better than the job they had in clover and that their lives will be much better with the job. He decides to move from clover to Turner Station to better his standard of living.  Another example from the movie Mudbound is when Runsel took up the military job to go work overseas because he believes that the job will improve his family standard of living. 

Finally, poverty can be escape through perseverance. Once you fail one time keeps trying again. Wealthy or successful people go through trials to become that they are at the end. Therefore do not ever give up. Persist in sowing in your present to reap a brighter future. An example is the quote by Andrew Carnegie “you cannot push anyone up a ladder unless he be willing to climb a little himself.” Andrew Carnegie is an example of the meaning of his quotation. He was not born wealthy but obtained multiples of jobs starting at the age of thirteen to help out his family. Also, when Skloot wants to learn about Henrietta even though she started to know about her when she was younger and through the process she went through a lot of people with different personalities, she also has to travel miles away but she never gives up. She continues to thrive till she gets what she wanted. 

Opponents of these views present several arguments. People say poverty is a vicious cycle and those come from poverty end in poverty. However, even people that works hard and get an education still lives in poverty. For example, in America some people after graduating from college they do not get the job in the area of there study and they will take up odd jobs, working from one odd jobs to another, l and living by checks. By doing so they tend to stay in the position that they are trying to deviate from. Also a country in Africa, Sierra Leone to be precise, even when people work hard they still live in the poverty regimes. There are certain people that do farming, even when they will be working very hard everyday to improve their standard of living nothing changes. They will remain in the same poverty line that they started. 

However these views may easily be refuted. No matter where a person is in life getting a good education, working hard and perseverance pays off. Erin Rhoda sate that “the truth of curse is that you aren’t likely to get out of poverty by simply working hard at a menial job. Getting out of poverty often requires obtaining an education and a skill.” Also, in “Millions Could Escape Poverty By Finishing Secondary Education”, says UN Cultural Agency.  The UNESCO explains that for poverty can be reduced if only adults can complete their secondary education. That will minimize the rate of poverty more than half globally and by almost two-thirds in sub-Sahara Africa and South Asia. Hence the only defense to defeat poverty is pursuing and education and be committed in whatever you are doing. It might be tough but always stay focused because at the end you will achieve your desire goals. 

In conclusion work hard and never stop learning. Take every opportunity you can find to make yourself and your community a better place to live because that helps everyone in the long run. If you are going to work hard all your life do something to earn a living in what you like to do. Seek employments opportunities and never give up. Also get an education because it is the key to success.



Works Cited

Mudbound. Directed by Dee Rees, performance by Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Jason Clarke, Jason Mitchell and Mary J. Blige.

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. United States: Crown Publishing Group, 2010. 19-30. Prints.

Ursula Burns: “From Public Housing to CEO- CNN. Com”. Cable News Network, July 19 2017.

UNESCO: “Millions Could Escape Poverty by Finishing Secondary Education.” June 2017

