



“Abuse is more than Physical Harm”

        	Have you ever been abused? Whether its physically or mentally? Has anyone ever told you wouldn’t be nothing? Then you prove them wrong? Abuse is not just physical harm towards someone but, is also the verbal words you say to someone. Abuse is something that many people experience each day, some without even knowing that they are being abused. An estimated 683,000 children were victims of abuse and neglect in 2015. Abuse is a spectrum that vary from physical to controlling, because people use abuse as a way to let out their child too.           	 First of all, people use abuse as a way to let out anger because, they don’t know how else to express it. Many people think abuse is caused by a partner’s mental health condition, for example: bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), narcissistic personality, borderline personality or antisocial personality. Abusers with mental illness tend to put on a “fake mask”, to hide their behavior from outside people that are not their partner. Parents who use substances such as alcohol are three times more likely to abuse their children and four times more likely to neglect them. Children who grew up with a single parent who use alcohol or drugs are at a greater risk, because the second parent isn’t there to correct the situation or protect the child from abuse. Abusers tend to abuse people because they see them as a “object” not a human. Abusers see people as “objects” making them want to hit people or take their anger out on them because to them the person can’t feel it.  



Secondly, people abuse others because they have learned it from their parents. Child abuse is not only physical violence, it also includes emotional abuse and neglect. Children who are abused when they were younger tend to grow up more sensitive, and full of anger due to the their “loving figure” being absent. When a child is abused at a young age their brain holds onto the trauma of the mental or physical abuse. Of the children who experienced maltreatment or abuse, three-quarters suffered neglect; 17.2% suffered physical abuse; and 8.4% suffered sexual abuse (National Children Alliance). Some children have suffered more than one form of maltreatment, making life more challenging. Parents don’t always physically abuse their children, they will verbally abuse their child too. They will down talk their child in order to let out anger within themselves. Parents will say things to their child such as your dumb, your ugly, your fat, and etc.

Finally, people abuse others to feel more in power because, they feel less than someone else. People will abuse others because they have low self-esteem. When someone have low self-esteem they tend to think less of themselves and their worth. When someone have low self-esteem they tend to be jealous of a certain person or group. With their jealousy they gain rage for the certain person or group, and then they act upon that. Next, a person who abuse see people as convenience to them. This means that they think the person is subject to do whatever they want. They want to strip the person of their independence, so they can feel more in power. To do this they abuse the person physically or verbally so the person can fear them. Power is a big reason why someone abuse other people. They abuse people just to be seen as “powerful”. They get grief from someone being full of fear from them.

As you can see abuse does not just mean physical harm but verbal harm and emotionally too. Abuse is something that doesn’t just happen there’s always a reason behind it. Whether it’s being to let out anger, a reflection of past experiences and or, to make yourself be seen as powerful. When someone abuse they target people who they know they can have power over. Be mindful of one’s behavior, and if you’re ever a victim of abuse find the strength to walk away.





















Work Cited 

http://www.nationalchildrensalliance.org/media-room/media-kit/national-statistics-child-abuse









