Informed Consent: Rights of the Patients

Informed consent is the practice of obtaining informed consent has its history in, and gains its meaning from, medicine and biomedical research. A set of research ethics principles for human experimentation known as the Nuremburg Code was established in 1948. The Nuremberg Code was introduced in August 1947, after the Nuremberg trials. During these trials, Nazi doctors were convicted of crimes committed during human experiments on concentration camp prisoners. It was one of the earliest to address ethics in medical research, it stated that voluntary consent was mandatory for any clinical research. In the book The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot cells were taken from Henrietta Lacks’ body without her permission. Even though the use of medical subjects and patients offer benefits, it is inappropriate because the privacy of the patients is not respected, the experiments being performed are excessive, and the families of the patients suffer the hardship. 

First, research conducted by doctors during this time invaded the privacy of patients and their privacy was not respected. Radhika Rao an Indian film director who studied physics and chemistry said “Even if donors do not possess property rights, what about the potential impact of such research upon the donor’s (and his or her family’s) right to privacy?” (Rao 437) According to, Radhika Rao “Henrietta Lacks’ history captivated the public imagination. Her story also encapsulates the controversy over informed consent, and hints at a possible resolution through the rubric of body property.” (Rao 438) Since informed consent was not a popular document many patients at this time were unaware of the dangers that were present. The only thing a person really own’s in this world is their body so it is important for people to know everything that is happening involving their bodies. “With Henrietta unconscious on the operating table in the center of the room, her feet in stirrups, the surgeon on duty, Dr. Lawrence Wharton Jr., sat on a stool between her legs. He peered inside Henrietta, dilated her cervix, and prepared to treat her tumor. But first- though no one had told Henrietta that TeLinde was collecting samples or asked if asked if she wanted to be a donor- Wharton picked up a sharp knife and shaved two dime-sized pieces of tissues from Henrietta’s cervix: one from her tumor, and one from the healthy cervical tissue nearby. Then he placed the samples in a glass dish” (Skloot 33).

Second, the experiments and research being performed by doctors and medical researchers around the world are considered excessive. To illustrate the Tuskegee syphilis study performed on negro men was a study conducted between 1932 and 1972 by the U.S. Public Health Service. The researchers told the men that they were being tested for “bad blood”. In exchange for taking part in the study the men received free medical exams, free meals, and burial insurance. As a result, the researchers continued to conduct studies until the men died. Doctors took advantage of their abilities to gain knowledge of cures for other diseases and viruses. “I decide who gets my money after I die. It wouldn’t harm me if I died and gave you all my money to someone else. But there’s something psychologically beneficial to me as a living person to know that I can give my money to whoever I want. No one can say, ‘She shouldn’t be allowed to do that with her money because that might not be most beneficial to society.’ But replace the word money in that sentence with tissue, and you’ve got precisely the logic many people use to argue against giving donors any control over their tissues” says Lori Andrews (Skloot 321).

Third, the families of the patients have to suffer from the outcome of the decisions made by manipulative doctors. Consequently, the family was left with the thought that Henrietta was never at rest because her cells were still living. No money was given to Henrietta’s family for the benefits her cells had on science. The Lacks family was lied to and deserved more respect. In the article Henrietta Lacks and The HeLa Cell: Rights of Patients and Responsibilities of Medical Researchers the author says “The Lacks family felt their rights had been violated when German scientists posted Henrietta’s genetic code on the Internet.” (Stump 129) The fact that they were of African American descent made a huge impact on how the family was treated as a whole. Many white doctors used African Americans patients as lab rats to experiment on which. “Lawrence didn’t think about the cells much anymore, though occasionally he and Zakariyya still entertained the idea of suing Hopkins” (Skloot 306). 

Admittedly, the opponents present the idea that it is helpful to use medical research from patients whether a person has consent or not because the research can help make important discoveries about incredible medical breakthroughs. “Research on Henrietta Lacks’ cells has led to the development of the polio vaccine, cloning, gene mapping, in vitro fertilization.” (Baker 337) David Korn, vice provost for research at Harvard University says “I think people are morally obligated to allow their bits and pieces to be used to advance knowledge to help others. Since everybody benefits, everybody can accept the small risks of having their tissue scraps used in research” (Skloot 321).

However, it is not ethical to use patients for medical research without consent. It is morally wrong to experiment on a patient’s cells to obtain answers for the benefits of science. Only a person who gives consent makes this action right. “If somebody says being buried without all their pieces will condemn them wandering forever because they can’t get salvation, that’s legitimate, and people should respect it,” Korn says (Skloot 321). 

In conclusion, patients and medical subjects should not be used in medical research despite the benefits it has brought about because it is unethical and goes against the beliefs of individuals; it causes pain for families; and it causes invasion of privacy. Everyone has rights; therefore, everyone should have a say when it comes to the things that are done to their bodies. It is important that doctors and medical researchers are professional enough to share personal information with patients that is critical to their knowledge. The development of informed consent has been an amazing accomplishment in history because it puts in place the responsibility to educate the patients about the study purposes, procedures, risks and benefits, and obtain consent before involving a patient in research. By doing this a patient will always be informed about any concerns.





















Works Cited

Baker, Stacy. “Life after Death: An Activity to Investigate the Scientific, Legal, & Racial Issues of the Henrietta Lacks Story.” The American Biology Teacher Vol. 73, No. 6 August 2011: 337-340.

Rao, Radhika. “Informed Consent, Body Property, and Self-Sovereignty.” Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics Vol. 44 Issue 3 2016: 437-444.

Stump, Jessica. “Henrietta Lacks and The HeLa Cell: Rights of Patients and Responsibilities of Medical Researchers.” The History Teacher Vol. 48, No. 1 November 2014: 127-180.

Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” New York: Crown Publishers, 2010.