DNA Theft



The story of Henrietta Lacks, is a story often retold of how doctors and medical practitioners blatantly benefitted from samples taken without consent. Instances like this are the reason for medical confidentiality. Medical Confidentiality ensures the patient will not have their records shared without proper prior consent. The lack of medical confidentiality has been ignored, ignited medical coalitions and caused the violation of  patients.



In the court case Volk vs DeMeerleer, A psychiatrist was being sued after one of his patients murdered an ex-girlfriend and her son. The estate of the victim claimed argued the psychiatrist was liable since he did not warn the victim. This was a classic case of whether or not violating confidentiality was acceptable or not. Another landmark case would took place in 1976 with Tarasoff vs Regents of the University of California. This case traveled all the way up to the supreme court of California. The court ruled that physicians have an obligation to report any known threats, and it has been law ever since.



A large reason for the ideologies like medical confidentiality, is the World Medical Association (WMA). The organization was founded after WWII when a panel of doctors met to discuss the current state of medicine. These doctors were on the forefront of establishing medical ethics. When it comes to confidentiality the WMA states that “confidentiality may be breached when the expected harm of maintaining privacy is believed to be imminent, serious and “unavoidable.”An example of this would be the circumstances described in chapter 33 of “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” about the crownsville institution.



Before these guidelines  people were violated daily, especially people of color. Doctors offices for African Americans were often run down or not up to par with those of their white counterparts. Henrietta Lacks was a black woman who was profited off of without her receiving a single penny. Had her skin been a different color, the story would have been vastly different. In “ The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”,  Zakkariyya Lacks said, “ What he did was wrong. Dead wrong. You leave that stuff up to god.” when asked about Henrietta’s cells. This displays the pain that was inflicted on some of these families who were victims of medical malpractice



Opponents of these views present several arguments. Many people might say that these involuntary “donations” were for the greater good. They might say that they have caused. scientific advancements that have changed lives across the world. In Henrietta’s case, some claim she wouldn’t have truly understood what it would mean to give consent. Rebecca Skloot tells us in her book that doctors at James Hopkins  had no problem using patients as “ research subjects” because these people were not paying for treatment(Skloot 30). 



However, these views can be proven wrong. If someone were to rob bank at gunpoint, would they be forgiven if they donated the money to charity? The same logic also applies here. We can not ignore wrong doings just because it benefits society. We cannot break the backs of the few just to help the greater good. 



In conclusion, the state of medicine has come a long way. With that, so has the importance of medical confidentiality. The doctors of today now know better than to disclose information recklessly about their patients. There are rules in place to ensure that these injustices never repeat themselves. We might not have been able to say that with such confidence if the story of Henrietta Lacks was not shared with us.



