The Battle Between Cleanliness 

      and Sloppiness

	

The battle between cleanliness and sloppiness is one that each person struggles with daily. Being clean is a trait most people strive to achieve to the best of their ability. However, sloppiness always finds its way through poor habits and lazy attitudes. The way one carries themselves based on their cleanliness is a clear depiction of what truly matters to them in their individual lives, their ability to stay salubrious, and their ability to remain focused and keen. 

Throughout life, a person will have a distinct activity or item that they are very attached to or care about immensely. Usually, they will keep whatever is essential to them clean and neat to preserve from destruction or dirtiness. A significant number of people love to sleep! Sleep is an integral part of the everyday life. "A survey conducted by the National Sleep Foundation found that people who make their beds every morning are 19 percent more likely to report regularly getting a good night’s sleep. People who were surveyed also reported benefits from having clean sheets — specifically, 75 percent of people said they get a better night’s rest when their sheets are freshly cleaned because they feel more comfortable." (Ryback 1)

In addition to cleanliness showing one's ability to keep the things that matter to them neat, it also shows how much they care about their health. Healthiness and cleanliness are linked together because both produce positive outcomes when done right. "A study led by associate professor Nicole R. Keith, Ph.D., research scientist and professor at Indiana University, found that people with clean houses are healthier than people with messy houses." (Ryback 1) 

Finally, being focused and keen is easier to do when everything is organized and neat. Having a distinct area for individual objects or files allows for quicker response and attention."In 2011, researchers at Princeton University found that clutter can make it more difficult to focus on a particular task. Specifically, they found that the visual cortex can be overwhelmed by task-irrelevant objects, making it harder to allocate attention and complete tasks efficiently." (Ryback 1)

Overall, the way one carries themselves as far as being clean relates to what matters to them in life. From being healthy to remaining focus and attentive, the idea of cleanliness is represented by actions and efforts in everyday living. One's ability to stay salubrious and clean causes for a more excellent living experience and lifespan. Regardless of the why, however, it's clear being clean has better opportunities than the alternative.                         

















   







  References 





Ryback, Ralph. “The Powerful Psychology Behind Cleanliness.” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 11 July 2016, .

