The Truth Behind Woman in the 1920’s	



Can women ultimately become more than a housewife? Women have been known to be the one to hold up their families since the 1920’s. Women in 1920’s claimed the traditional role of being a housewife. Housewives are women who don’t work but rather stay home and care for their children and take care of any chores that need to be done at home. Women are typically the ones to make several decisions for their families whether it’s good or bad. Women also have to make several sacrifices in order ensure a stable and secure family. We witness this in the movie Mud Bound when  Florence Jackson and Laura McAllen are women who come from two different racial backgrounds, but both share the same role as a wife and mother.

Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson are both two women who share several similarities. Both, Laura and Florence live in Mississippi throughout the movie. Both Laura and Florence are women who has made several safrices to ensure their families are up kept. Laura had to sacrifice her home to move into a farm just because her husband thought it was best for them. Laura didn’t have a say so on the move she just knew she had to un order to meet the needs of her husband. Florence had to make the sacrifice of working on the McAllan farm in order to meet the needs of her family wanting to have their own house. Both characters are experiencing the harsh reality of someone whom they love going into the war. Both of their devoted husbands continuously work hard in order to be provide and support the family.

	Laura McAllan is different from Florence Jackson for several different reasons. Laura McAllan is a white woman with a college education. Laura had the chance to live with her parents until she was an adult, which mean she didn’t have to work as hard in life. Laura was a 31 year old virgin until she met her husband Henry. On the other hand, Florence Jackson is a black woman with a 6th grade education. Florence could barely read and write but made the best of what she could do. As her children were growing up, she worked as a midwife and later became a sharecropper with her husband, wishing to own land some day. Unlike, Laura Florence had the ability to cure people who were sick as Laura couldn’t. 

In the 1920’s white women had roles of being housewives, and were featured wearing cosmetics that relied on their husbands. Whereas, black women were mainly servants or mammies. Mammies were black nuremaids who were in charge of caring for the white children. The roles of women in the 1920’s fit into the movie Mud Bound because, Laura was the traditional housewife who relied on her husband to do the hard work while she focused on their children. Florence served as a nursemaid to Laura’s daughters when they became sick. 



In conclusion Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson share similarities and differences throughout the movie Mud Bound. Women in 1920’s claimed the traditional role of being a housewife. Although they were different races and came from different families, they still play the role of a wife and mother. 