


                                      The Dangers of Being Controlling

Prompt: B) Augusten Burroughs provides a definition of abuse that is more nuanced than physical harm in the essay “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not”.Re-read the text and then write a five-paragraph essay on how abuse is a “spectrum,” ranging from physical abuse to controlling. Use examples from Burroughs’ essay to support your assertions. 



       When you hear the word “abuse” what do you think of? Do you think of anger? Do you think of someone hitting their spouse? Abuse has so many different references, but it all depends on how you view it. In the text “How To Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” by Augusten Burroughs, he talks about how being controlling is also considered abuse. Physical abuse, emotional abuse, and silence are all considered different types of abuse in which, being controlling takes place through all 3.



      Physical abuse to me is the worst kind of abuse that no one should have to experience or witness. The perception that the abuser is always a male is not true. Being controlling in a physical abusive situation is very common. When the abuser gets violent, it makes them feel as though they have power over you and that’s where being controlling takes place. “You could be in an abusive relationship and be unaware that you are, unable to see the abuse for what it is” (Page 474, line 49). Everyone is so use to witnessing abuse, but they don’t notice when it’s happening to themselves. Just because someone says “I’m sorry”, doesn’t guarantee that they won’t do it again. 



      “Emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s own purpose” (Page 472, line 28). In life, you will often face people who will try to bring you down with their words. They will try to control you with the words that they say and in the tone of how they say it. I’ve personally experienced emotional abuse from my mom, but it was up to me whether or not I was going to let her words control me. Everyone will go through emotional abuse their life because everyone judges everyone in this world. Watch what you say to people because not everyone has confidence in themselves. 



      Silence can be so deadly and unknown. You can use silence as a way to control someone, that’s why it’s also considered abuse. “…The silence is used as a tool to frustrate or sadden or otherwise intentionally manipulate the emotions of another” (Page 471, line 21). The silent treatment is often used to punish people. Ignoring someone or just not talking to them at all is considered punishing them. Nine times out of ten, you aren’t talking to that person because they did something to upset you and you don’t know how to express your feelings except to be silent. You would want to purposely make them feel bad for upsetting you. That’s where being controlling comes in. 

      In conclusion, being controlling is considered a kind of abuse. No one should have to experience any types of abuse in their lives. The 3 main kinds of abuses are physical abuse, emotional abuse, and silence. Being controlling appears in all of these abuses by trying to take over one’s emotions or by getting violent. “Abusive people never change” (Page 472, line 29). Always remember your worth and don’t let anyone control you in any way. 





