Summary Paragraph: Henrietta Lacks Pages 1-104



	Published in February 2010 “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” by Rebecca Skloot pages 1-104 describes the hardships that Henrietta Lacks experienced ever since the discovery of a lump on her cervix. The books open up with Henrietta and her family going to the John Hopkins hospital, which she was being seen in the gynecology clinic. Once, she got confronted by a receptionist she explained to them how “She got a knot on her womb” and that “The doctor needs to have a look. Henrietta experienced something similar when she had a conversation with her two cousins about “feeling” something when they touched her belly. Moving on, Once Henrietta got seen by a doctor he found a cervical tumor. It was “the size of a nickel,” and it looked “like grape Jello.” The story then moves on to talk about Henrietta childhood life.

	When Henrietta mother died, she and her nine brothers and sisters were split up to live with different relatives. Henrietta stayed with her grandfather who were already raising her cousin David who they called Day. Henrietta and Day eventually got married and had five children. Following the story about her childhood, the story then moves on to when Henrietta founded out exactly what her condition was. Howard Jones Henrietta’s doctor found out that Henrietta’s tumor was malignant on February 5, 1951. Once, diagnosed she signed a paper giving the doctors at the hospital to perform any “necessary treatments” that may need to be performed. Two pieces of Henrietta’s tissue was taking to Gey’s Lab for testing, where her cells started growing Henrietta rapidly then returned home leaving her cancer a secret from her family. Her tumor disappeared after her second radium treatment but, her doctor didn’t tell her the process would leave her infertile.

	After her treatment, Henrietta began to feel sick and weak. It wasn’t until eleven years later when Rebecca Skloot decided to find more research on Henrietta’s case, as she persuaded Pattillo to give her the number of a relative of Henrietta, in which she told Day Lacks that a book should be written on Henrietta. Henrietta was told she was cured of her cancer but, later was told she had a tumor in her abdomen. Henrietta’s tumor continued to spread throughout her body, as she began to be in complete pain causing her to stop wanting her family to see her like that. Rebecca Skloot then sets off to Virginia to find Henrietta’s graves to learn more information about her. Henrietta then was running out of blood from her treatments, as her family and friends tried to donate. Henrietta was pronounced dead on October 4, 1951, as Gey wanted to take more samples of her cells but was refused by her husband. More people wanted to learn about her cells as they were so uncommon. 	

	





































