The Truths and Myths of Listening



	A good reason to become a great listener is because listening is a leader’s most important skill because listening is an overlooked tool that creates an environment of safety when done well.  over the decades have estimated that we spend anywhere from a third to half our time listening. And yet we don’t retain very much. Back in 1957,  that listeners only remembered about half of what they’d heard immediately after someone finished talking. There’s no reason to think that ratio has improved since then. Listening can be a  to master. The three types of listening are Internal, Focused and 360.



	A misconception of listening is that listening and hearing are the same. Hearing and listening are not the same thing. Hearing is the act of perceiving sound. It is involuntary and simply refers to the reception of aural stimuli. Listening is a selective activity which involves the reception and the interpretation of aural stimuli. It involves decoding the sound into meaning.Listening is divided into two main categories: passive and active. Passive listening is little more that hearing. It occurs when the receiver or the message has little motivation to listen carefully, such as music, story telling, television, or being polite.



	Another reason to be a good listener is because those with good listening skills are more likely to be hired than those without good listening skills. Good listening skills nurture great communicators. Being a good listener is one of the best ways to be a good communicator. No one likes communicating with someone who only cares about putting in her two cents and does not take the time to listen to the other person. If you're not a good listener, it's going to be hard to comprehend what you're being asked to do. Take the time to . Active listening involves paying close attention to what the other person is saying, asking clarifying questions, and rephrasing what the person says to ensure understanding.



	Another misconception is that listening is a natural process. The truth is listening goes far beyond your natural hearing process. It means paying attention to the words that are being spoken with the intention of understanding the other person. Your personal perceptions and prejudices can affect the quality of your listening skills. For example, if you feel your are better off (financially, intellectually, socially) than the person you are listening to, you may dismiss much of what she is saying because of your perceived superiority.



	Communication is a cornerstone of any relationship, especially a romantic one, but that doesn't make it an easy thing to master. Luckily, there's a simple way to strengthen your relationships that can reshape the way you understand each other: active listening. Active listening doesn't make uncomfortable conversations easier, but it helps you move through them more gracefully. Most of all It cultivates intimacy.

