It’s Wrong to Operate on Patients As Medical Subjects

In the medical field, there have been countless stories about how patients are used illegally and against their will to advance medicine. A prime example is what had happened with Henrietta Lacks. Henrietta Lacks had cells stolen from her. These cells were then cloned after her death repeatedly. Her family had no idea what her cells were being used for until the day of her death. It was on the day of her death that her family found out her cells were being used for cancer research. Her story helps to strengthen the argument that use of patients and medical subjects is highly inappropriate despite the multiple benefits that can occur from using those medical subjects. It violates patient-doctor confidentiality, causes mental and emotional anguish for the families involved, and even invades the patients right to privacy.

Patient-doctor confidentiality also known as physician-patient privilege is the legal idea that relates to medical privacy. This protects interactions between the patient and their doctor. This means that whatever you tell your doctor or anything that your doctor discovers is between the both of you. Your doctor can not divulge this information and health information to anyone. When it comes to Henrietta Lacks they had patient-doctor confidentiality, but more specifically health information ownership. According to Health Information Ownership: legal Theories and Policy Implications “laws focusing on the source alone may protect information only in its collected form, meaning the information itself is not protected, but the list, database, or other collected information format is protected” this means that the health information that is collected through other means that does not involve data is illegal. The act gathering tissue samples and then using those samples for medical purposes and not telling the patient is an unlawful act. Henrietta went in for a checkup after feeling a knot near her cervix. 

It can cause mental and emotional anguish by creating families to be burdened knowing that something as vital as their genetic information is no longer privately contained amongst the family. The genetic data associated with the patient is no longer with them. Instead, the medical professional who took it from the patient now has a part of their DNA. In the case of Henrietta Lacks, her family had believed that she was still alive despite her death. This was due to doctors who took her cells and made it seem as if she is still currently alive. This caused her family to be mentally and emotionally damaged. According to the immortal life of Henrietta Lacks, Bobette had discovered from a doctor that her mother in laws cells was still alive. She told Lawrence who told his father which lead him to question everything he said "Henrietta's alive? He thought. It didn't make any sense. He'd seen her body at the funeral in clover himself. Did they go dig it up? Or maybe they did something to her during that autopsy” (pg181). This is saying that her family had believed that she is still alive that she had been kidnapped or being kept alive and forcefully operated on.

The cells that were taken from her were according to Informed Consent, Body Property, and Self-Sovereignty "HeLa cells ended up in labs across the country, were sent to the moon, led to development of the polio vaccine, improved our understanding of cancer, and helped pave the way for modern advances in vitro fertilization, genetics, and cloning" this caused her family to believe that she was still alive and that there is chance that she is still alive.  

It is an invasion of privacy because you are stealing relevant information from the patient. It causes enormous problems by taking genetic information that not even the patient always knows. In the case of, she did not know that she had rare cells that could last for so long. They just took her cells. Did not let anybody know what was happening at all. They made something that was personal to her, and it is still being used to this day.

Opponents of this view that want to continue use of patients as medical subjects despite the negatives that can occur even if the ends justify the means. If no significant harm is done to the patient, then everything is ok. This ideology views what the doctors had done to Henrietta Lacks as good thing that was necessary to help push medicine further past its limits. It did have significant connotations for a drug by using her cells without her knowing. When people had used her cells, they had discovered advancements in polio and cancers. According to the immortal life of the Henrietta Lacks "The University of Minnesota-tried infecting Henrietta's cells with poliovirus. Within days they found that HeLa was, in fact, more susceptible to the virus than any cultured cells had ever been” (pg95). This means that by using Henrietta Lacks cells, they were able to discover what parts of the cells polio were attacking specifically.   

According to the immortal life of Henrietta Lacks "scientist believed that since patients had been given treatment for free in the public wards, it was fair to use them as research subjects as a form of payment." This act means that they offered free medical care so that they could get their research on them. In conclusion, it is wrong to use patients, and medical subjects are highly inappropriate despite the multiple benefits that can occur from using those medical subjects. It violates patient-doctor confidentiality by breaching the rule that patients and doctors agree on that vital information remains the two parties. It causes mental and emotional anguish for the families involved by leading them to believe that there loved are still alive despite them not knowing that they are no longer alive such as the case with lacks, or even having vital family information revealed and leaked. It even invades the patients’ rights to privacy by having vital information that only they knew of taken from them.  This is why it is an inappropriate thing to do to patients and subjects alike. "

 













































Annotated Bibliography 



Henrietta Lacks and The HeLa Cell: Rights of Patients and Responsibilities of Medical Researchers, Jessica L. Stump the History Teacher, Vol. 48, No. 1 (November 2014), pp. 127-180

	The reason as to why I decided to select this source is because it relates very well with my overall topic that it is highly inappropriate to use patients and medical subjects despite the medical benefits that it might have. This is due to the text providing in-depth information about the negative impact on the family that was due to Dr. Gey not informing the family of the discovery. The document discusses how because of “Dr. George Gey” taking Henrietta Lacks cells without her permission violated her rights and the rights of her family as well. This due to Dr. Gey not informing the family of Henrietta lacks what he was going to do with those cells. Instead, he decided to announce on national television what he had discovered. Instead, he did not inform the family at all, and family had to find out from another source. They grew an estimated 20 tons and 11,000 patents involving HeLa cells. Without the consent the family, the family felt very disrespected and violated.  

Rao, Radhika. "Informed Consent, Body Property, and Self-Sovereignty." The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics: A Journal of the American Society of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, no. 3, Sept. 2016, pp. 437-444. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1073110516667940.

	The reason that I chose this source is that it relates very well to a primary point of my argument which is the justification being able to have a say over your samples and what happens to them even if they are voluntarily taken. This will be a pinnacle piece of the argument about rights and informed consent. The text speaks on the topic of how using human biological materials is in mass effect. The article also questions if a blanket of approval will cover the act of using people’s genetic material for research or will very explicit permission be a primary form of agreement. 

Cartwright-Smith, Lara, et al. "Health Information Ownership: Legal Theories and Policy Implications." Vanderbilt Journal of Entertainment & Technology Law, vol. 19, no. 2, Winter2017, pp. 207-241. EBSCOhost, proxy-bs.researchport.umd.edu/login?url=.

	The purpose of using this article was to have a better understanding of what it meant to talk about the unique nature of health information. This means that the information that is regarded as a person's health information is a very sensitive topic. This article is about the legality of health information ownership and why it's very significant and a violation of property rights. The article gives an in-depth understanding of property rights in which parts of the body are used or are needed. This is saying that no matter what if it's your body you still own it despite whether or not its longer attached to you, because it's still you and yours.



 Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

	The inherent purpose of the use of this book was to complete the requirements for the prompt with the commitment to understanding the background information presented by Rebecca Skloot. The overall point of the actual text is to discuss the investigation of how, what, when, and where Henrietta Lacks life transpired.

