“Observing Cleanliness”
	People must ask themselves: do they really want someone that doesn't care about the way they leave a room around them? It is possible to know a person's personality by observing their cleaning habits. The level of a person's cleanliness determines how they keep their composure, keep up with their appearances, and how they maintain relationships with other people. 

	A person's cleanliness determines many things, one of which is the way they keep their composure. A neat person usually remains less stressed because they have so much organization in their life. They organize their life so that everything is at ease because of the lack of confusion. Cleanly people show less aggression when they're expected to react to situations in a more calmer way. However, for a sloppy person it is the complete opposite. Everyone's thoughts could be considered their "space" and for a sloppy person their space is never organized, in other words it means their thoughts are rather scrambled. Scrambled thoughts causes more aggression towards other people because the feeling of chaos.

	One's cleanliness could also determine how well they keep up with their appearances. Everyone has woken up late for school or work before, and in that moment of rushing just decided to throw on any type of clothing. Well, that's the kind of lifestyle sloppy people live in a everyday type setting. As far as neat people go, they have more time to get ready and put more thought into their appearance because they are organized. Not only are they organized with the space around them, but they are organized with their time management as well.  A sloppy person, on the other hand, has this persona that they don't have to keep up with their appearance because of the messy lifestyle they live. 

	Lastly, a person's cleanliness determines how they maintain relationships with other people. Previously stated, sloppy people lack the effort that goes into their appearance. This then effects their relationships in a negative way because they don't match their partner's level of effort. Neat people on the other hand have healthy relationships because they have just the right amount of effort and they can prioritize so they can give their partner enough attention. Sloppy people live a chaotic life making it difficult to balance other things that they might be going through in life. Something like a relationship, that comes with a lot of responsibility, could be hard to balance along with other things in life. Neat people have more of a stable mindset and have more success with prioritizing. Making it possible to have healthy relationships with others. 

	Cleanliness might not be at the top of everyone's list when looking at someone's characteristics. Until realizing the effects it can have on one's appearance, composure, and relationships. Hopefully people will take that into account now when deciding not only what kind of people they want around them, but the kind of person they want to be.