What Really is Love?



	Some may wonder what is love? How do I know I love someone or is in love? Love is “affectionate greetings conveyed to someone on one's behalf.” (“Love | Definition of love in English by Oxford Dictionaries.”). Love is about caring, nurturing, and protecting one another. You can identify love by knowing what love is not. All relationships is built off of a spectrum whether it is healthy, unhealthy, or abusive. In the, story “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not”, it talks about the negative aspects of how some love is which is physical abuse, mental abuse, and the aftermath of the abuse.

For some people, being in love causes pain. “Love doesn’t use a fist. Love never calls you fat or lazy or ugly. Love doesn’t laugh at you in front of friends. It is not in love’s interest for your self-esteem to be low” (Burroughs pg. 470). Abuse in a relationship is never ok in any circumstance. Physical abuse is “any intentional act causing injury or trauma to another person or animal by way of bodily contact...”(“What Is The Definition Of Physical Abuse?”). Physical abuse also leads to controlling. “An abusive partner is controlling. They are manipulative” (Burroughs pg. 470). Love is only supposed to bring you happiness, not violence.

Physical abuse is not the only type of abuse, there is emotional abuse. Emotional abuse is "any act including confinement, isolation, verbal assault, humiliation, intimidation, infantilization, or any other treatment which may diminish the sense of identity, dignity, and self-worth" (Tracy par. 2). Emotional abuse could be yelling, insulting, threatening, humiliating, isolating, ect. Emotional abuse can be as equal to physical abuse. It can leave mentally long- lasting scar and memories. Emotional abuse will have people feeling depressed, having low self- esteem, and lack of confidence. Using foul words is the common way people could detect emotional abuse. No one should have to go through abuse with their significant other. 

Abusers do not understand how much it can affect the victim. Some victims want to blame themselves; they think it is their fault they got abused. Abuse can change their mindset forever, it can cause them to not get into a relationship anymore, not trust anyone, and become distant from the people surrounding the victim. Many women have mental health problems, some victims can even get PTSD and brain injury from all the abuse they went through. Abuse can even lead to misuse of drugs and alcohol. Do not take abuse lightly and go seek help.  

Abuse can be hidden due to the fact of a person in the relationship is use to the abuse, deals with it, and is blinded by love. It’s sad that people can adapt to the abuse, but that is reality. No one should ever put their hands on you and if the relationship ever gets that toxic it is not meant to be. Burroughs makes an important point, it takes love to leave an abusive relationship; but you are not alone. Their is always a hotline to call or reach out to your family and friends.   



 

 























Works Cited



“Love | Definition of love in English by Oxford Dictionaries.” Oxford Dictionaries | English, 

Oxford Dictionaries, en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/love. Accessed 25 February 2018.

“Relationship Spectrum.” The National Domestic Violence Hotline, 

. Accessed 25 February 

2018.

Tracy, Natasha. “Emotional Abuse: Definitions, Signs, Symptoms, Examples - 

Emotional-Psychological Abuse - Abuse.” HealthyPlace, . Accessed 26 February 2018. 

“What Is The Definition Of Physical Abuse?” YouTube, YouTube, 31 Aug. 2017, 

. Accessed 25 February 2018. 



















