The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks
 
  	The story took place in the 1950s where a hospital only treated black people. HeLa was discovered during this time, but only because of the unawareness of Henrietta and without Henrietta consent.  However, this inappropriate decision a surgeon made without a patient consult despite the benefits it brought. This use of a patients caused no privacy but progress, no consent in black people medical care, and tremendous physical and psychological pain. 
           A patient being taking advantage of and not informed of the decisions and method being done is invading privacy. Caucasian journalist writes a report on a black woman name Henrieatta having her privacy invaded by a doctor stealing her cells without her consent. She stated how she was unaware but the procedure was progress and became the first immortal human cell line. Rebecca Skloot, journalist discovers and observes:
The plan was that Mandel would have doctors on his staff inject twenty-two JCDH patients with cancer cells for Southam. But when he instructed his staff to give the injections without telling patients they contained cancer cells, three young Jewish doctors refused, saying they wouldn't conduct research on patients without their consent. (Skloot 130) 
Some professional had respect for patients rights even when the law did not. Therefore, doctors knew how wrong invading a patient privacy is and also inappropriate. Although, their actions were wrong the results brung progress by the world being undoubtedly better because the cell line exists. 
           As patients privacy being invaded, they also have no consent in the medical care. Instead of the doctors informing the patients of the consequences or side effects during procedures, the black woman named Henrietta faced being infertile and in pain. Her doctors failed to keep her informed of their decision and neglecting to tell her the after effects. Rebecca Skloot told the story of Henrietta experience when going through cancer treatment. In Rebecca Skloot’s book “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks”, the author explains, “Everybody always saying Henrietta Lacks donated those cells. She didn't donate nothing. They took them and didn't ask[…]” (Skloot 169). This explain how the Henrietta had no consent and her family weren’t consulted either in the situation. Which is why in todays society doctor have to have patients sign a consent form.
            As black patients back in the 1950s were not getting consent, it is certain that because of that Henrietta experienced tremendous physical and psychological pain. This resulted in her experiencing infertile and believing she was healing instead. However, the big problem was her cancer treatment failed and she died. The caucasian well-educated doctors felt that Henrietta did not have the capacity to understand their decisions. Despite how the doctors felt this caused harm to Henrietta body resulting to death. Doctors examined her inside and out, pressing her stomach, inserting new catheters into her bladder, fingers into her vagina and anus, needles into her veins (Skloot 40). Skloot gave a harsh description of a in pain woman’s experience which seemed terrible. 
           These views present multiple arguments on a patients medical rights. They emphasize on the rights a patients should have, especially when talking about your own health and privacy. They also claim how patients can be aware of the procedures that will be done to their body and giving doctors consent. Furthermore, they argue back in the 1950s on how black not having a education and not being able to understand the methods being done.      However, these opinion can be proved. While there are numerous situations where black people had no choice but to attend colored hospitals only where they are not treated with the same respect as whites. David drove Henrietta nearly twenty miles to get [to Hopkins], not because they preferred it, but because it was the only major hospital for miles that treated black patients. This was the era of Jim Crow—when black people showed up at white-only hospitals, the staff was likely to send them away, even it if meant they might die in the parking lot(Skloot 15). This tells how African Americans was affected by their race and lives were not fully cared for. Although they were not treated with respect they had no rights. There's no way of knowing whether or how Henrietta's treatment would have differed if she'd been white. According to Howard Jones, Henrietta got the same care any white patient would have; the biopsy, the radium treatment, and radiation were all standard for the day. But several studies have shown that black patients were treated and hospitalized at later stages of their illnesses than white patients. And once hospitalized, they got fewer pain medications, and had higher mortality rates(Skloot 64). Skloot talks about how whites got better treatments and took better care of. Which is why there should have been equality and more rights for everyone to be taken care of with the same amount of care. 
            In conclusion, doctors back in the 1950s should had consent forms; its causes pain and horrible outcomes with giving patients further notice; and it cause the doctors to be able to invade a patients privacy. Henrietta did not have knowledge of her cell being taken but became a legend and first discovered human cell. Although, despite the benefits it is very inappropriate to use a patient against their will. 



Work Cited
Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks. New York : Crown Publishers, 2010.