
				Final  Draft  Essay  3

	Before  1951,  the  ability  for  scientist  to  grow  cells   that  were  outside  the  human  body  was  unbelievable. This  all  changed  in  1951  when  a  woman  by  the  name  of  Henrietta  Lacks  checked  into  John  Hopkins  hospital  and  was  diagnosed  with  cervical  cancer. After  taking  a  look  at her  tumor  cells,  doctors  discovered  that  her  cells  were  unique  in that  they  could  thrive  outside  of  her  body  and  keep  growing  indefinitely. Due  to  her  unique  cells, decades  of  medical  research  have relied  on  her  cells  to  develop  drugs  for  treating  herpes, leukemia, influenza, hemophilia, and  parkinson's...etc. As  stated  in  text   titled “ The  Immortal  Life  of  Henrietta  Lacks “  by  Rebecca  Skloot, “ They  recruited  hundreds  of  African  Americans  with  syphilis, then  watched  them  die  slow,  painful,  and  preventable  deaths…”.  With  this  stated, it  contributes  to the  fact  that  many  African  Americans  besides  Henrietta  Lacks  were  taken  advantage  of  for  medical  research. The  lack  of  consent  form  doctors,  exploitation  of  African  Americans, and  the  negative  impact  for  Henrietta’s  family  following  the  profits  that  ensued  as  a  result  of  her  cells being  taken  prove  that  the  use  of  medical  patients  for  medical  research  is  inappropriate  and  all the benefits  that  have  come due  to her cells do not  justify the actions  of  the doctors. 



	Unbeknownst  to  us, countless  doctors  may  have  gotten  away  with  the  unethical  use  of  African American  people  for  clinical  trials. The  blatant  lack  of  respect   for  African  Americans  as  a  whole  led  to  their  use  for  clinical  trials  without  a  care  for  the  safety  and  or  wellbeing  of  those  unfortunate  people. Financial  incentive  is  the  most  likely  reason  why  doctors  look  past  every  wrongdoing  they  have  committed. Informed  or  patient consent  was  clearly  not  utilized  when  it  came  to  African  Americans. It  requires  doctors  to  ensure  that  the  patient  understands  the  purpose,  benefits,  and  risk  of  all  components  of  the  test  or  treatments. Similar  to  the  people  used  in   the  Tuskegee  Institute  syphilis  research. It  is  stated  in the  text  that  “ Though  no  law  or  code  of  ethics requires  doctors  to  ask  permission  before  taking  tissue  samples…” , Regardless  it  is  crazy  to  know  that   John  Hopkins hospital  financially  benefited  from  her  cells,  while  her  family  can’t  afford  health  insurance. Millions  of  people  rely  and  trust  the  doctors  in  hospitals  to  help  them  

treat  injuries  and  illnesses,  so  it  is  not  right  to  take  advantage  of  people  who  trust  with  the  doctors. Without  proper  consent, doctors  should  only  be  responsible  for  doing  what  is  necessary  to  take care  of  the  patient.

	Henrietta  Lacks  family  suffered  the  most  from  the  injustice  involving  Henrietta. The  family  discovered  that  a  part  of  henrietta,  which  were  her  cells  were  still alive  many  years  after  she  died. They  did  not  really  think  much  of  it  until  they  found  out  money  was  involved.  When  they  realized  that  her  cells  were  being  sold  across the  globe  and  they  were  not  getting  any  of  the  resulting  money,  they  were  very  angry. The people grew up in an era of segregation, in which white people didn’t have to explain anything to black people, but when that all changed, you realize that white people would have been treated differently, which contributes to the fact that it was unethical to take the cells in the first place without permission. While the medical industry made billions of dollars selling Henrietta’s cells, her family was left without a dime of that profit and continued to struggle and not even be able to afford insurance. An article found online states that, “ Henrietta’s body lay in an unmarked grave” ,  which  proves that their family was poor and could not afford a proper burial and that they would have certainly benefited from the profits if they had only received about ten percent of it.

	Opponents  of  these  views  present  several  arguments. They state that at the time, taking cell samples was a normal procedure.  Others  believe  that  the  decision by the doctors to take  their  cells was beneficial to  the  progress  of  humankind. Finally,  John  Hopkins is  a research  hospital. 

	However, these  views  are  easily  refuted. If  a  patient  has  cells  that  are  that  beneficial  to  people  around  the world, they  should  be  rewarded. It  should  be  our  duty  as  people  to  make  sure  that  everyone  is  taken  care  of,  so  if  the  hospital  knows  that  her  family  is  struggling,  the  least  they  could  have  done  was  give  her  family  a  check  until  her  cells  are  no  longer  useful to  society  because  someone  who  has  that  great  an  impact  on  society  should  be  living  paycheck  to  paycheck. Doctors  that  made  the  decision   to  take  her  cells  might  hight  been  thinking about  how  it  could  benefit  others, but  regardless  they  should  have  asked  for  consent  from  her  family  and  given  them an actual choice to make because it is not right  for  people  to  do things that directly impact them. Despite  John  Hopkins  being  a  research  hospital, they  are  still a  professional  organization and  should  act  like  such. So  them  taking  her  cells  without  offering  a  consent  form  is  not  professional, therefore  taking  henrietta  lacks  cells  was  unethical.



	In  conclusion,  the  lack  of  consent  from  doctors, the  exploitation of  African  Americans  for  medical  research,  and  the  negative  impact  for  Henrietta's  family  prove  that  the  use   of  medical  patients  for  medical  patients  for  research  is  inappropriate  and  all  the  benefits  of  having  Henrietta’s  cells  do  not  justify  the  actions  of  the  doctors. The  opposing  arguments  that  state  taking  cell  samples  is  a  normal  procedure  overlook  the  fact  that  consent  is  important  when  it comes  to  life  and  death. Although  beneficial  for  the  research  of  John Hopkins hospital  and  the  importance for  medical  research  around  the  world, it  is  not  fair  that  Henrietta’s  family  still struggles  to  this   day  when  they  could  be  benefitting  from  Henrietta’s  miracle. It  is  important  to  recognize  the  blatant  disrespect  for  African  Americans  in  our  society  and  we  as  African  American  must  taken  steps  to  ensuring  safety  for  ourselves. 

	











					Works  Cited



( Robie Mckie, Science Editor ) ( 04/03/2010 ) Henrietta Lacks's cells were priceless, but her family can't afford a hospital 



( Reuters Reporter ) ( 08/07/2013) 









	



	

