The Intersections of Poverty



 	There are many definitions of poverty depending on where a person is from. In the United States, poverty is defined as the state of being extremely poor. Although being poor is a major part of poverty, the social inequalities that cause people to be stuck in poverty are an even major aspect. Social inequalities are the unfair disadvantages that influence the livelihoods within communities of people. These inequalities can impact people’s lives based on their many intersections, such as race, class, and/or finances. Poverty is a system built from the state of being poor and social inequalities. Those factors have developed into this inescapable burden. The realities of poverty and how generations of families are affected is illustrated in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot and Mudbound directed by Dee Rees. Rebecca Skloot documents the life of a black woman named Henrietta Lacks. The story of Henrietta is told through her family, who are impacted by the death of their mother while living in poverty. Although Dee Rees’s story is fictional, it also incorporates similar experiences of a poor family, The Jacksons, who also deal with social inequalities that hold them back from escaping poverty. The poverty that affects the families in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks and Mudbound exhibit how varying circumstances, like race, class, and finances cause people to be unable to escape the lives they’re born into.

The first major aspect that contributes to the system of poverty is race. Poverty is built upon the idea that people with different identities should be pushed away from the ‘acceptable’ public. Which means based on the United States history, poverty can be a direct effect of racial inequalities. Skloot and Rees stories of black families living in times of high racial tension, exhibit how race can force a person into poverty. The Lacks and Jackson families are examples of racial biases controlling lives of people. Rebecca Skloot describes how Henrietta Lacks cells benefitted and advanced science, “Hopkins say they gave them cells away,” Lawrence yelled, “Many scientists believed that since patients were treated for free in the public wards, it was fair to use them as research subjects as a form of payment. And as Howard Jones once wrote, “Hopkins, with its large indigent black population, had no dearth of clinical material” (1). Yet Henrietta’s family still live below the poverty line because they’re black and come from an extremely poor community. In Mudbound, Dee Rees portrays the Jackson family as hardworking but like the Lacks, they don’t benefit from their work because they’re seen as racially inferior. Although those stories are from the past, the present time has many similarities. Barbara Ehrenreich’s essay, “Class Matters”, analyzes how poverty hasn’t declined and only gotten worse with time. The essay discusses how poor people of color are more likely to be charged and fined with misdemeanors, “75 percent of the people charged with misdemeanors are poor even indigent. They are disproportionately people of color. The average fines for misdemeanors are in the range of $200 to $500” (Ehrenreich 18). Ehrenreich points out the unfair fines that are typically targeted at poor people, especially people of color. As the prices of systems that are meant to target poor people of color increases, the possibility of escaping poverty will remain at very low chance.

Class division is the cultural and economic split between a society of people, that makes one group of people more powerful then the other. The separation of class creates very different power dynamics in the United States. People who are wealthy tend to reap the benefits of being in a socially accepted class, such as upper or middle class. People who are living in very poor conditions face the disadvantages of being in classes, like working poor and poverty level. The research essay “Poverty and Intersectionality: A Multidimensional look into the Lives of the Impoverished” by Bige Saatcioglu and Canan Corus discusses the everyday lives of people living in poverty, who are stuck because of how difficult it is to climb out of the poverty level. The study points out how many social disadvantages deprive communities of certain resources. People who live in low-income households are more likely to be faced with “financial deprivation” and “poor health [care]”. These problems make it hard for people to care for themselves and an entire family. Saatcioglu and Corus discusses an interview of a woman’s experience with being poor and how it affects her health, “based on our informant’s account...patterns of practice in the healthcare system can perpetuate vulnerabilities, especially in the cases of patients with deep financial constrains…she talks about the vicious cycle of unemployment, resulting financial deprivation and dependency”. The authors argue that the woman’s state of health is a direct impact of the class division that makes it hard for her to get healthcare. Rebecca Skloot describes a similar disadvantage for the Lacks Family through a discussion she has with one of Henrietta’s sons, Lawrence, “but they made millions! It’s not fair! She’s the most important person in the world and her family living in poverty. If our mother so important to science, why can’t we get health insurance?”(168). Millions of dollars were made off of Henrietta Lacks cells, but because of her family’s low-class status, they don’t benefit from that. Class division forces people to stay in poverty because people of wealth and power are the main ones benefitting from certain resources and information, rather than helping poor communities escape poverty.

The lack of financial guidance in impoverished communities leave people with no other choice but to stay in poverty. The people who need financial assistance are the ones least likely to get it. The United States has done a poor job with helping people financially and putting in the effort to educate poor communities about finances. The wages and conditions of jobs prevent people from being financially equipped to rise above the poverty level. Barbara Ehrenreich explains how low income and poor employee conditions affect the finances of the average American family, “a huge number of Americans, probably about 30 percent of working people, are paid less than they can afford to live on, wages that do not allow them to support a family, or maybe even one person,” ( Ehrenreich 15). The absence of financial help whether it be teaching financing or raising minimum wage, affects the conditions of how people live. When people are born into this kind of life, it would be harder to escape poverty because the system doesn’t help a person make better financial choices. In, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, for years the Lacks family are entitled to the benefits of Henrietta’s cell, but because of the system built against impoverished people, they’re never compensated for the use of their mother’s cells. Rebecca Skloot recalls a rant made by Henrietta’s daughter, Deborah, that conveys the reality of not being helped financially;

But I always have thought it was strange, if our mother cells done so much for medicine, how come her family can't afford to see no doctors? Don't make no sense. People got rich off my mother without us even knowin about them takin her cells, now we don't get a dime. I used to get so mad about that to where it made me sick and I had to take pills. But I don't got it in me no more to fight. I just want to know who my mother was. (8)

The Lacks family was poor and ‘unintelligent’ people, which is the reason people behind the HeLa cells never thought twice about helping them. The financial assistance in the United States fails to help include poor people into certain benefits, that would make them financially stable.

However, there are many claims, that say poverty isn’t impossible to escape. People have argued that if the right preventative methods are taken, then poverty will start to decline. The concept of creating  programs that actively teach and help generations of impoverished families has been adopted by many people. The authors Mark J. Van Ryzin, Anthony Biglin, and Diana Fishbein’s essay, “The Promise of Prevention Science for Addressing Intergenerational Poverty,” considers the idea that the cycle of generational poverty can be prevented. The authors discuss how and why poverty continues to increase, and then they suggest how preventive programs for families are effective for changing the system. They argue that ‘family based’ and ‘school based’ prevention programs could go into impoverished areas and teach financial and behavioral skills to parents and children. This preventive method could not only tackle generational poverty, but also minimize the lack of exposure that new generations have with financial skill building. Ryzin, Biglin, and Fishbein conclude the claim by identifying the problems that preventive programs can fix;

Evidence-based family and school prevention programs have significant potential to reduce risk for negative outcomes associated with poverty and adverse social environments and, in turn, interrupt the cycle of intergenerational poverty… The ultimate goal of these efforts should be to ensure that every family and school has the skills necessary to prevent the growth of problems such as antisocial behavior and drug abuse and to nurture development of children’s self-regulation, social skills, and academic success, enabling them to become contributing members of society (136)

In addition, the authors conclusion maintains the belief that preventive programs can be effective in reducing the social and financial poverty, through the dismantling of generational poverty.

Although the opposition has valid points, the claims can be refuted. The concept of preventative programs is already an idea that has been discussed and implemented into poor communities. The programs that exist have not had enough impact in dismantling the system of poverty. While the idea isn’t bad, it doesn’t completely acknowledge how difficult it is to stop identities from being a controlling factor in poverty-stricken communities. The programs would have to arrange in depth conversations about the realities of the systematic influence of impoverished people.  “Poverty and Intersectionality: A Multidimensional look into the Lives of the Impoverished” by Bige Saatcioglu and Canan Corus, makes a point of how deep poverty is ingrained into The United States history, that it affects every intersection of a person’s identity. Saatcioglu and Corus explain that identities that put people at a disadvantage are linked together, furthering a life of poverty for people, “Structural inequalities are linked to institutional, systemic factors that sustain marginalization of disadvantaged groups. These inequalities often contribute to the perpetuation of various disadvantages such as lack of employment, inadequate healthcare, lack of affordable housing, and political disempowerment,”(125). Poverty is a systematic and institutional problem. In order to effectively help poor people, The United States would need more then skill building programs to help, but also to discuss the long history of poverty targeting marginalized groups of people.

The system of poverty is created through maintaining racial, class, and finance divisions between the people in a society. There is a long history of people with of certain identities being denied benefits, that rich people get to experience. For years the United States has tried to dismantle poverty in different communities, but because of the biases that society has, we have had little success. The intersections of poverty affect the everyday lives of poor people. Impoverished people are stuck in positions, that most have no control over, and will continue to live in poverty until the steps are taken to discuss institutional and systematic aspects. 





















Work Cited

Poverty and Intersectionality: A Multidimensional Look into the Lives of the Impoverished 
Bige Saatcioglu and Canan Corus, Journal of Macromarketing, Vol 34, Issue 2, pp. 122 – 132, First Published January 21, 2014.  

Van Ryzin, Mark J., et al. "The Promise of Prevention Science for Addressing Intergenerational Poverty." Psychology, Public Policy, and Law, vol. 24, no. 1, Feb. 2018, pp. 128-143. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/law0000138.

EHRENREICH, BARBARA. "Class Matters." Anglican Theological Review, vol. 98, no. 1, Winter2016, p. 15. EBSCOhost, proxy-bs.researchport.umd.edu/







