When most people think of consent they mainly think of a parent signing a permission slip to allow their child to go on a field trip for school, but they never think of people signing away their lives for scientific experimentation. Human experimentation without proper consent is unjust because the patient has not being educated on the procedures being performed, their life is at risk and they are not being compensated for the risk that they are taking.

In most cases patients that are aware that they are being experimented on they are not properly educated as to what the experiment could possibly affect their body. For example, during Jim Crow in the South white scientists went into black communities in Tuskegee to test its residents for Syphilis. The researchers told the patients that they were going to receive medical treatment for this disease, but the patients were not informed that they were going to be used as a controlled group of a scientific experiment. In the article,“ U.S. Public  Health Service Syphilis Study at Tuskegee” it says that,“The men were never given adequate treatment for their disease. Even when penicillin became the drug of choice for syphilis in 1947, researchers did not offer it to the subjects.” The men who were selected for the experiment that were told that they were being treated for their “bad blood” but they wanted to see what the long term effects of  syphilis were, but the men were not properly educated and were lied to. So in result the researchers found out what they needed to know but the test subjects were affected negatively in the long run. 

  Not only is it not proper consent when the patient is not properly educated on the experiment, it is also not proper consent when the researchers know that the medicine could possibly kill its test subjects. It is wrong to treat the test subjects as if they are not human, simply because of their social status.For example, during World War II military conducted an experiment on prisoners to test medicine for Malaria. The prisoners were promised that they would lose time on their sentences if they participate in the experiment. The researchers knew that offering the prisoners a smaller prison sentence would cause a large number of the prisoners to want to participate. Researchers failed to inform the prisoners that the medication that is being used could possibly kill them as the test subjects. This is unjust because even though the prisoners are felons that are shunned by society, it does not give the researchers the right to risk the lives of these prisoners. In the article, “ The prisoner as a model organism: malaria research at Stateville Penitentiary”  states that, “ … inmates of the Stateville Penitentiary in Illinois were infected with malaria and treated with experimental drugs that sometimes had vicious side effects.” ( Comfort,1). This quote shows that the prisoners were given this disease from the researchers and even though the prisoners signed up to participate, that does not mean that they were aware of what that disease could do to their bodies. Not only did the prisoners not know what malaria could do to them, they also didn’t know what the medicine could to their bodies, considering the fact that the medicine had vicious side effects. 

The last point would be that it should not be considered consent if the test subject is being used for the benefit and wealth for the scientists and they are not being compensated for their contributions as a test subject. An example of this would be that Henrietta Lacks and her family because, Lacks’ tissue from her cervical cancer was used to test diseases. Lacks’  family were not aware that their mother was being used for scientific research when she was alive and even after she had died. The scientists did not even want the public to know whose cells they were using because they didn’t want the family to find out that the researchers were making a large amount of profit by using these tissues. In the text, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks it says, “ Henrietta knew nothing about her cells growing in a laboratory. After leaving the hospital, she went back to life as usual.” (Skloot, 42.) Henrietta was still alive when the discovery of her cells took place, so she could’ve gave consent right before she died. “Henritta’s children grew up hungry. Every morning Ethel fed them each a cold biscuit that had to last them until dinner.” (Skloot, 111). Lacks’ family was living in poverty their whole lives. On the other hand the text says,  “ His buddies dragged him up the embankment to the white Jeep he’d bought using money from a cancer research award.” (Skloot 170.)  This shows that Gey was financially benefiting from Lacks’ cancer cells, while the Lacks’ family are living an impoverished life and the father was struggling to feed their children especially after Lacks’ died. 

Opposing sides would say that the reason that researchers selected these types of individuals because doing these experiments are cheap and it didn’t matter because people of color and prisoners had very low social statuses. They would also argue that the human experimentation is benefitting  scientific research and someone would have to make a sacrifice in order for scientists to discover new things about the human body that can benefit the human race as a whole.  

The opposing side makes a good argument that scientists need people to test on so researchers can find out how the human body functions with diseases, but they don’t discuss if the subjects know if they are being used as these sacrifices.“The value of the data depends on the subjects’ willingness to participate. This willingness to participate.” ( Comfort, 2). This quote shows that if the participant didn’t want to engage in the experiment, the findings of the experiment isn’t as credible as it would if the test subject was willing and properly informed.

In conclusion, it is unethical for researchers to perform human experimentation if they do not properly inform their participant, knowingly put the subject’s life at risk and benefit from their findings and not compensate the test subject. In all of the examples that were used in previous paragraphs, it shows that none of the researchers cared to inform their patients of what the scientists were planning to do to their bodies or that the researcher was planning to receive financial benefit from the experiment. Overall, any scientist that does experiments on humans without properly educating or compensation should have their license taken away.

 