The Slime Possibility of Escaping Poverty 

In the United States of America, there is a national ethos called the “American Dream”, that in America there is equal opportunity for success for every American. That if you work hard and stay diligent, you will have success with few barriers and will be able to provide for your family with ease. However, this is an illusion, for many Americans this “American Dream” is simply just a dream, a lie covered in an empty promise. In fact, many Americans lives are the complete opposite, living in poverty, penny pinching trying to save every dollar. Poverty in America is a national epidemic, with millions of families living in poverty. There are certain factors that may increase the chance of descending into poverty. There are also certain gateways an individual may take to escape out of poverty and reaching a low-class income, but it is a slim to none chance. For many individuals it can be very difficult to escape poverty when they are born in the United States because of access of education, an individual’s level of education, and   lack of assistance from government financial aid. 

It is often argued that if you get a good education you can easily come out of poverty and that if you do not have enough money the government will aid any pursuit in college career. Of course, there is some truth to this claim, the government does offer certain financial aid. However, it comes with multiply steps and only provides partial financial aid when it comes to paying college tuition. 

Education is a key factor to success in America, a college degree is a major factor in the competitive job markets of today, the level of an individual’s education can factor if an individual fall into poverty. According to the Bureau of Labor Statics, the median for occupations that require a bachelor’s degrees annual wage comes to $65,190 and for individuals with a high school degree the median income comes to $35,580. With just a High school degree income is cut in half instantly, being educated in America is non-negotiable. Only having a High school diploma creates a barrier from providing for families with ease and living a comfortable lifestyle. In “Transitions Into & out of Poverty in the United Sates” Stevens Huff explains that individuals with less than a Highschool degree stay 2.6 years longer in poverty then the average person in poverty. A lack of education makes the escape from poverty narrower and less likely. 

Admittedly, a person may be able to live of a Highschool degree only income, and some argue that there is an abundance of ways to access education to have a higher income. Leading to multiply routes to receive a college education. Certainly, a valid argument but a somewhat outdated argument, leaving out key details on the process of receiving an education to have a higher income. 

 However, the lack of access to education is also a factor, with the government only providing fully free public education until Highschool. But when it comes to receiving a college degree the government assist somewhat in your academic endeavors by giving “Financial Aid” to lower income students trying to pursue a college academic career. However, there are certain qualifications a student must complete, to receive financial aid and base on those qualifications it will determine the amount of financial aid a student will receive. Certain qualifications such as total household income, family history, and academic standing all factor into the amount of financial aid a student receives. Also, the government only gives a small fraction of the total of a college’s tuition, the rest must come out of pocket, which is not an option for families in poverty. Another alternative method to paying a college tuition is student loans, which is when the government loans funds towards college tuition, and six months after graduation you must pay back the funds to the government. This is not much use to an individual in poverty, because you must be in good credit and income standing to take out a loan from the government and this will just create debt and subdue an individual more in poverty. Lastly, you may apply for a third-party scholarship, these scholarships are determined mostly by an overall Highschool GPA (Grade Point Average) of all four years of Highschool. With a vast competing applications process receiving scholarships is not always guaranteed.  

Nevertheless, some argue that the “American Dream” is still attainable, that no matter where you come from that there are equal opportunities for every American.  That income status dose not matter, all you need is diligence and persistence. Also, that it is all about who you know,  that class, ethnicity, and gender have nothing to do with families in poverty and the lack of access to education.   

On the other hand, all these factors are essential needs to receive a bachelor’s or Associate Degree, but when in poverty, it becomes difficult with the multiply barriers and little government funding. In findings by Pell Institute, “Students who live in households with an income of less than $35,000 only represent ten percent of all degree awarded of the year 2014”. . So, students who come from a low-income home are less likely to earn a degree. With families living in poverty it becomes a cycle and the whole family are most likely to succumb to the cycle of poverty. To the individuals struggling in poverty it seems nonlogical to drop everything and pursue a degree when it is near impossible to apply and pay for college. 

This is a real-life fact as shown in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Lawrence Lacks was the oldest of all the Lacks children and a prime example of how living in poverty with a family and education are hard to balance, as shown here “Because Day was working two jobs, Lawrence dropped out of school and spent most of his time taking care of his brothers and Deborah.”( 111).  Lawrence had responsibilities that he could not ignore, as the oldest he must take care of his family, while his father was out working. Lawrence placed his family before his education, which is what most families in poverty have done to provide for their families. Going to college to earn a degree will take money away for their families, the only reason for going to college is to be able to earn more money for their families, which is a lose-lose situation.  

In The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Henrietta and her children lived somewhat on a different spectrum of how to earn money. During Henrietta’s time the industrial industry was booming, and thousands of jobs were available in factories, working with steel. “When the demand for steel increased during World War I, … Bethlehem Steel’s housing barracks for black workers quickly overflowed, pushing them to Turner Station.” (25). There was not any need for a college degree in a steel factory because you are working with your hands. For many African-American including Day and Henrietta this was a ticket in a new life off the farm with more financial success. As time went on society started to change the war was over and the need for steel decreased, and the time for change was coming the Civil Rights movement was in effect and the law of segregation was coming to an end. 

Henrietta children was living in a time where education was becoming recognized as an essential importance and proof by the case of Brown v. the Board of Education that equal education was worth the fight. In The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, daughter Deborah did not want to go to school anymore, because she could not hear the teacher, so she told her brother’s Lawrence wife Bobbette.  Bobbette responded “Sit up front if you can’t hear. I don’t care what you have to do, but you get an education, cause that’s your only hope.” (116).  Bobbette Lacks knew the importance of a proper education will give Deborah the skills she needed to survive in America, when Bobbette said that an education was Deborah’s only hope the Lacks family at the time was living in poverty. During the 1950s, it was especially essential for African- Americans to have education, even with segregation this was the main a most likely the only gateway to financial and career success, which was true back then as it is today. 

There are serval causes and effects of why a family descend into poverty, such as racism and the lack of access to education. When Deborah Lacks meet Rebecca Skloot, they lived on two completely different spectrums. Deborah Lacks an African-American woman lived a life mostly in poverty and limited but attainable academic opportunities, while on the other hand Rebecca Skloot a Caucasian woman who had non-existent barriers and immense opportunities. But went crossed paths to obtain a common goal of finding out who Henrietta Lacks truly was, differences were embraced but ultimately made Deborah and Rebecca close friends. Another example of opposites is in the film Mudbound, with the African-American family the Jacksons and the Caucasian family the McAllan’s. Both farmer families that live in Mississippi, the Jacksons and their ancestors living on the land their whole lives and the McAllans who recently move on the Jacksons land and making the Jackson work for them because of the color of their skin. In both instances ethnicity and education had an effect  in certain families 

In conclusion, families stricken with poverty have a thin chance of escaping poverty because of the lack of support we give to individuals in poverty. When it comes to education it is an essential need to survive in the United States, education opens career and financial opportunities and the only key is education. However, our country makes it difficult to receive this education and to be able to provide fully for our families and our futures. With a system that is faulty on aiding those who need financial aid to attend college, if academics determine who receives the best jobs, then the college tuition and application needs to be revaluated. 

































Work Cited 













