Henrietta Lacks Argumentative Essay





Throughout history, many cultures have adapted to their surroundings and have 



created their own languages to communicate with the people from their region. Within



those languages, there are also dialects in which people usually from the same ethnic 



group use to communicate with each other. For example, someone from New York may 



use a different type of dialect than a person from Georgia, even though they both may 



speak the same language. This is the same exact thing that Rebecca Skloot, author of 



‘The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks’, includes in her memoir of Henreitta Lacks. She 



includes much of Henrietta and her family’s “Black English” to make her story more 



realistic, but many people think it was not relevant to the story. The use of ‘Black 



English’ that Skloot incorporated into the story of Henrietta Lacks’ life is indeed justified 



because it provides an authentic reference back to Henrietta’s time that she lived, 



insight on how she and the people around her interacted, and depth and color into the 



story as well.





First off, the use of African-American Vernacular English is definitely valid in 



this story because it helps recreate moments that happened in Henrietta Lacks’ life. 



African-American Vernacular English, also known as AAVE, is a dialect of English that 




is mostly spoken by the working, middle, and lower classes of African-Americans in 



America. As Sadie says in the story, “Hennie made life come alive—bein with her was 



like bein with fun… Hennie just love peoples.” (Skloot 43) Although it’s not “proper 



English”, a reader can still quite understand what she is trying to say. Sadie is saying that 



Henrietta was just a great person overall, and she was very charismatic and fun to be 



around. Also, with Skloot including Henrietta and her family’s use of AAVE in the story, 



she can accurately recount past conversations that Henrietta was included in. For 



example, on page 31 of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Henrietta tells her husband 



“Ain’t nothing serious wrong,” Again, although it’s not in the correct sentence structure 



that everyone may be used to seeing, that does not mean that it is not correct, but it is 



correct in the concept of AAVE. 





Secondly, with Skloot using AAVE in the biography, she provides the readers 



with insight into how Henrietta, her family, and peers interacted in the times where she 



was alive. For example, Sadie says “Man you so much in love with a girl, you gonna die 



for her? That ain’t right.” (Skloot 23) The fact that AAVE was used back then and is still 



being used now (even the same way they used it back then), is just proof that ‘Black 



English’ is culturally relevant to society as a whole. Black culture as a whole has had a 



powerful impact on the world today, and has even been incorporated into pop culture. 



Like Henrietta Lacks’ cells, many parts of black culture have been stolen and marketed to 



make money by many people. However, AAVE has had some good impact on many 



communities who use it. In Jessica Whitney’s ‘Five Easy Pieces: Steps toward 




Intergrating AAVE into the Classroom’, Whitney talks about “valuing students’ home 



language,” and also “learning AAVE to communicate better with students, and not



penalize them for using it in the classroom.” (Whitney 1) This further proves that AAVE 



is being not only used to this day, but that it is being used around the country to get 



children better connected with their teachers, and to have success in their academics as 



well.





Finally, another upside of Rebecca Skloot using ‘Black English’ in the biography 



of Henrietta Lacks would be that the use of AAVE is adding a little character depth to the 



story. Anyone who has read the story can say that Henrietta and her family use Ebonics 



all of the time, which make their roles in the story more interesting. As many would say 



that America is a “melting pot” of all cultures, AAVE is no different. AAVE is just one 



of many different types of dialects in the world, that helps communities communicate 



better with each other. In the video ‘Discussion on pros, cons of so-called African 



Vernacular English’, according to Dr. Chatwara Duran of University of Houston, when 



students bring their ‘Black English’ to school, not only do their classmates learn to 



communicate with them better, but their teachers do as well. There can be many positive 



outcomes of this, because the teacher learns to deal with different students, and also 



improves their teaching strategies.





However, many do not believe that African-American Vernacular English is 



appropriate to use, no matter where you are. The opposing side argues that AAVE is just 



a “collection of slang and bad grammar,” and that there is absolutely no use for it when 








we have Standard English to learn. After the school board of Oakland, California 



approved the use of AAVE in its schools in 1996, Rev. Jesse Jackson stated “I understand 



the attempt to reach out to these children, but this is an unacceptable surrender, bordering 



on disgrace.” He later changed his opinion on the topic, but before that, his comment had 



caused a lot of people to agree with him. Also, another argument that was brought to light 



by the great poet Maya Angelou in ‘A Linguist Offers a Brief Immersion in Black 



English’, is that “The very idea that African-American language is a language separate 



and apart can be very threatening, because it can encourage young men and women not to 



learn standard English…”





The opposing side argues that AAVE is not valid because it makes no sense to 



other people, which is very appalling. These are both very good points in this broad 



argument, but this isn’t necessarily always the case with every single person who uses 



AAVE. Although AAVE is mainly spoken in urban areas, it is still considered a dialect of 



English. Not everyone has to understand AAVE, due to it being created so African-



Americans can communicate with each other using their own dialect, just like other 



people were doing during that time period. Just like there is slang in Standard English, 



there is slang in AAVE as well, which is no different. The argument that AAVE can 



possibly hinder a student’s learning ability is very valid and true. However, this is not 



always the case for every student, and for the ones that it applies to, the teacher or faculty 



working with the student can come together and set up a learning plan to help the student 



get back on track. No student should be left behind or punished because of speaking the 



language that they have always known.










In retrospect, ‘Black English’ is no different from any other language. It was used 



to help people of the same community communicate with each other, and is still being 



used today, and sometimes people who are not even African-American are using it. This 



goes to show how influential not only AAVE is, but African-American culture is too. 



With that being said, Rebecca Skloot is indeed correct for including the use of ‘Black 



English’ in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks’ because it provides first-hand accounts 



of Henrietta’s life, shows important interactions from that time period, and adds depth to 



the story as well.



























































Works Cited





Whitney, Jessica. “Five Easy Pieces: Steps toward Integrating AAVE into the Classroom.” The English Journal, 1 May 2005, www.jstor.org/stable/30047356?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents.



Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” Broadway Books, pg. 23.



Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” Broadway Books, pg. 31.



Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” Broadway Books, pg. 43.



Cunningham, Vinson. “The Case for Black English.” The New Yorker, The New Yorker, 19 June 2017, www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/05/15/the-case-for-black-english.



Smith, Jamil. “A Linguist Offers a Brief Immersion in Black English.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 20 Jan. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/01/20/books/review/talking-back-talking-black-john-mcwhorter.html.



KTRK. “Discussion on Pros, Cons of so-Called African Vernacular English.” ABC13 Houston, 16 Dec. 2015, abc13.com/society/discussion-on-pros-cons-of-so-called-african-vernacular-english/1125340/.



Bouie, Jamelle. “Why Black People's Disdain for ‘Proper English’ Is a Myth.” Slate Magazine, Slate, 1 Oct. 2014, www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2014/10/talking_white_black_people_s_disdain_for_proper_english_and_academic_achievement.html.

