An Analysis of Black and White women’s role in the 1930’s

The south during the 1930’s an era where the roles of genders began to change, but the traditional expectations of society left limitations on the women of the time. Women in the 1930’s had demanding expectations as wives and/or mothers. These expectations consist of following behind their husbands as loyal wives and appearing as a respectable woman to society. Although all women were expected to follow gender roles, there was differences in how these roles impacted women of different race. Racial inequalities had varying effects on the type of expectations that were ingrained into the lives of white and black women. The film, Mudbound, directed and produced by Dee Rees, speaks on the expectations of women and the racial bias that affects those expectations. Dee Rees utilizes the sacrifices made by the characters, Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson to depict the realities of gender and racial inequalities in the 1930’s. The expectations of women in 1930’s reveal that despite racial differences, Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson have similar roles, which is maintaining the lives of their family, being obedient wives, and supporting the dreams of their husbands. 

The culture of the 1930’s expected women to shoulder the role of maintaining a household by themselves. Mudbound centers around the changing lives of the McAllan and Jackson families. Those changes create demanding sacrifices that both Laura and Florence must abide by. Laura must give up the life that her husband promised, while Florence must follow the rules her husband created to maintain the lives of their families. Laura’s husband, Henry McAllan starts a new job, which causes the family to move to the rural south. For the family to survive, she must maintain the wellbeing of the entire household. Whereas in the Jackson household, Florence’s husband always expects her to maintain the house, so he can continue his plan of someday owning land. Although both women both are expected to keep their households together, Florence must sacrifice or else her family wouldn’t survive. The sacrifices that Florence make are essential in keeping her husband employed and her children safe. Laura doesn’t have to worry about the livelihood of her family, in way that Florence must.

Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson are obedient wives to their husbands, because of the dominate role that is expected of men. The norm in the 1930’s was that men were the head of the household. Laura and Florence are expected to be wives that follow listen and follow their husbands always. In the film there is a scene where Laura is unsure of Henry’s decision, but as a loyal wife she must follow his lead. Throughout the film Florence’s husband, Hap works everyday so he can give his family a better life. Florence doesn’t agree with the way he pushes himself, but rarely questions him. Laura must follow the lead of her husband but doesn’t face the same risk of disobeying men like black women. Florence is not only obligated to listen to her husband, she must obey all men to keep herself and her family safe. The differences in how and who Florence and Laura must obey men, reveals a contrast in how gender roles affect Black and white women.

The dreams of Laura and Florence’s husbands were prioritized over the stability of their families. The husbands of both women have dreams of careers that will provide for their families. Laura’s husband, Henry wants to own land and have people work for him. Laura and Henry become stressed by the debt and pressure that his dreams put on the family. Florence’s husband, Hap works to keep his dreams of owning land alive. The pressure of working on the plantation creates an emotional and physical strain on Hap. Florence eventually must accept the stress that Hap puts on himself for his dreams. While both are expected to follow the dreams of their husband, Florence’s experiences are different from Laura’s. Florence must work and sacrifice more, so she can help her husband reach his dream. Laura, as a woman only choice is to accept her husband’s career, but Florence must also depend on the dreams of her husband.

Women in the 1930’s were held to unattainable standards because of the gender roles there were established within households. Every woman was expected to be a wife and mother before anything else. Since men were leaders, women were expected to follow along and make sacrifices. In the film, Mudbound, Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson are dutiful wives and mothers. They follow behind the norms of gender by being maintaining the lives of their families, being obedient wives, and following the dreams of their husbands. Laura and Florence are similar in having to abide by standards that are expected of women, but race makes the effect of those standards different for both women. Mudbound reveals the similarities and racial biases within gender roles in the 1930’s, through the lives of Laura and McAllan and Florence Jackson.

								 