Mudbound Rough Draft

	In the film Mudbound, the women play specific roles in the storyline.  The roles they play are historically factual to the time period this film was based on.  The film was based in Mississippi in the 1940s.  Two of the main characters in this film, Ronsel Jackson and Jamie McAllan, were fighting in World War II during this time.  One of the other main characters, Henry McAllan and Hap Jackson, are struggling farmers.  The main difference between these characters that may seem similar without watching the film, is the color of their skin.  The same applies to the two main women in the film, Florence Jackson and Laura McAllan.  Both women are wives and mothers, and the main difference is their race.  The expectations of women in the south during this time period included tending to every need of their husband and children, tending to the household, and being seen, but not heard.  

	Though the roles of women in the northern part of the country during this time period was stepping away from being homemakers and stepping into the workforce, the women of the south were delayed in this aspect.  In the north, women were empowered by the fact that they were needed in the work force as the men were off fighting in the war.  Inspirational characters such as Rosie the Riveter were brought about during this time to portray women as hard working and determined (The Pop History Dig).  On the other hand, women of the south were still expected to be traditional stay at home wives and mothers.  Instead of working, the women were expected to serve their husbands when they returned from work and raise their children. If women did work in the south, they were heavily ridiculed because that was a man’s job.  In the film, both Laura and Florence are expected to tend to their children, but in very different households.  Laura hires Florence to help tend to her children, and Florence takes the job in addition to taking care of her own husband and children, for the extra money.  Both women are expected to be there to take care of their husbands, and be there whenever they want something.  

	Another expectation of women in the south was to keep the home tidy and organized.  In the film, Florence seems to do the cleaning for both families.  During this time period in the south, the color of one’s skin plays a major role in how they are treated.  Since Florence is black, she is looked down on and expected to do the hard work of others.  Since Laura is white, when she does not want to do the hard work herself, she can hire someone like Florence to come do it for her.  The racial divide in the country at this time was extreme.  The KKK was still a very relevant nightmare for African Americans, so many feared to step out of line.  Women during this time period were oppressed, but black women had a much worse time.  















References

J.D. “American Women in the 1940s.” The Pop History Dig, 2018, .

































Mudbound Outline

Introductory Paragraph

Begin to introduce Mudbound and female characters

Explain the setting and what is going on during this time period (WWII)

Thesis statement: The expectations of women in the south during this time period included tending to every need of their husband and children, tending to the household, and being seen, but not heard.  

Body Paragraph #1

Give point 1: tending to every need of their husband and children

Discuss difference of women in north vs. women in south, inspirational female figures during this time (Rosie the Riveter)

Compare and contrast Laura and Florence

Body Paragraph #2

Give point #2: tending to the household

Compare and contrast Laura and Florence

Discuss the difference between black and white women in the home during this time period.



Body Paragraph #3

Give point #3: being seen, not heard

Discuss similarities and differences of both women in their household.

Go over how women did not have much of a say over anything during this time (Laura being forced to move to a farm)

Conclusion Paragraph

Summarize points made

Restate question

