We must not settle when it comes to accepting just any kind of love. Sometimes we may confuse abuse with love, placing them into similar categories. In How To Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not, what readers should really gain from this reading is all love is not healthy love. Abuse, no matter how severe or how little it may seem, is always an important matter. Love has nothing to do with tolerance. What you allow will continue and can strongly have effect on you. We must learn not to let the ideal of desperately wanting love, cause us to stay and ignore the signs of controlling and physical abuse.

	You should not allow someone to continuously point out your flaws. That shows signs of controlling abuse. If you are allowing someone to constantly feed you negativity about yourself they are gaining power over you. Controlling abuse is very common in relationships, sometimes the men try to control the women. Some people don’t see a problem in this due to the fact that you of course are in a relationship. The problem is the constant control in a relationship can be manipulative, it can make you feel worthless, as if you are nothing without your partner. This type of abuse deals with psychological tactics. The abuser wants to intimidate the victim out of a voice when it comes to the relationship area. In How To Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not, Burroughs states, “Love does not maintain a list of your flaws and weaknesses.” That quote just by itself stands so strong. Love does not find a problem in you to throw in your face. Love finds a problem within you, and fixes it. Controlling abuse is a much slept on problem in today’s relationships. 

	Let’s look into another severe method of abuse, physical. Physical abuse is defined as any intentional act causing injury or trauma to another person or animal by way of bodily contact. Physical abuse is much more common in relationships rather than controlling abuse. Emotional abuse can contribute to physical abuse. The abuser usually manipulates the victim into thinking the reasoning for the physical abuse is because of something the victim caused, when in reality it is something much deeper to it. The abuser is unhappy with themselves, takes most of their anger out on whoever is vulnerable at the moment, and it begins to become a habit. In How To Identify Love by Knowing What Its Not, Burroughs states “Love doesn’t use a fist.” We all know when it comes to a relationship, putting your hands on each other shouldn’t be allowed. That isn’t love. It isn’t okay. It is a problem. 

	Controlling and physical abuse are two important and most common signs of abuse in a relationship. Controlling deals with more psychological tactics. It deals with your mental state. Controlling abuse can make a person seem weak minded without he/she even knowing. Physical abuse can be the result from a controlling abuse relationship. 

	To conclude, abuse is not love. Abuse has nothing to do with love. Do not let someone manipulate you into thinking what is wrong is right. When you are in love, you won’t have to wonder. You won’t even have to question. You will know. We must stop accepting what we “think” should be accepted. If you aren’t 100% sure about something, listen to your intuition. Abuse in no way is a form of love. We must learn not to let the ideal of desperately wanting love, cause us to stay and ignore the signs of controlling and physical abuse.

