

One for all or All for one 

When people hear of the Hela cells, they think of the major contribution it did to the medical world. They were the first immortal human cells, but they were taken from a patient without her consent. This was interesting because the topic speaks on the Utilitarianism. Utilitarianism is an idea where it is good to do something if it benefits majority. Utilitarianism is used in all aspects of today’s society. It is essentially how we evolve into healthier and better creatures. The idea that it might be inappropriate for doctors or anyone in the medical field to use patients and medical subjects to benefit the future makes you think. Is it inappropriate for people in the medical field to forcefully you patients to benefit the future, or is inappropriate to leave the patients in charge of the future? The idea that every man should be treated equal is now being challenge with the idea that loss of one man can beneficial to the majority. In the situation Henrietta Lacks and other patience like her, the medical world to use patients and medical subjects without their permission is inappropriate because it destroys the trust between patients and doctors; it is unethical; and the subjects that are used are accommodated for their help.

To begin you have to see that patients would lose trust in the medical field. After the hela cells were discovered, many diseases were curable, but the family could not trust the medical field afterward. In the book “The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”, Rebecca Skloot speaks about how they were injecting the Hela cells into patients and she says, “ Patients who’d unknowingly been injected with cancer cells by Soutcles and began contacting reporters. State Attorney General Louis Lefkowitz learned about Southam’s research through the media as well...he accused Southam and Mandel of fraud and unprofessional conduct, and demanded that the board of regents of the University of the State of New York revoke  their medical licenses,”(134). These doctors were reported on by the patients they had worked on immediately and had there licences still removed afterwards in the outcome just because they went behind the backs of their patients. They may not just lose a couple of patients’ trust but a whole race trust as well. While Ms. Skloot and Mr. Lacks were talking, Ms.Skloot wrote in her book, “‘Well what do you expect from Hopkins?’ Bobbette yelled from the kitchen, where she sat watching a soap opera. ‘I wouldn’t even go there to get my toenail cut’....Since at least the 1800s, black oral history has been filled with tales of ‘night doctors’ who kidnapped black people for research”(165). African American were beginning to be taught to not even trust the doctors so     

With that in mind about patients losing trust, the idea that patients and medical patient are being used without their consent is unethical for the people it affects. Doctors that use patience do not really consider the people as but more as objects and that is in humane. In an article titled “Did Nazi Research Actually Contribute Anything Valuable To Medical Science?”, the author, Richard Stockton, details us, “ it was inevitable that some medical researchers would seize the opportunity to conduct evil science experiments...Usually, this sort of thing is either tightly regulated or forbidden entirely, but since Nazis didn’t view the life of a concentration camp inmate as worth the paperwork to kill them, tens of thousands of prisoners could be reduced to so many lab rats, ”( 3-4).  These innocent people are no more than lab rats to these people, and that takes the humanity straight out of the person. Also, the patients that are used in these experiments are being used to death as if their lives are not important. Like in this article “Tuskegee Experiment: The Infamous Syphilis Study”, the author, Elizabeth Nix, informs the reader, “In order to track the disease’s full progression, researchers provided no effective care as the men died, went blind or insane or experienced other severe health problems due to their untreated syphilis,”(5). The lives of these patients were not even cared about when all they wanted was a healthy life. These people were not even treated as equals but as mere tools.

In all honesty, if they are not going to patients unethically they should be accommodated for their contribution, but they are not at all. While they may possibly give their life to the research the families they are leaving behind are not accommodated at all. In the book the “Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”,  Ms. Skloot says, “Jet said the family was angry-angry that Henrietta’s cells were being sold for twenty-five dollars a vial, and angry that articles had been published about the cells without their knowledge,” (5). They were making a profit off a patient without even informing the family of a share of the profit at all. With the medical projects being in secret, the patient receives no real recognition as well. In the book the “Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”,  Ms. Skloot recalls, “As I graduated from high school and worked my way through college toward a biology degree, HeLa cells were omnipresent. I heard about them in history, neurology, pathology; I used them in experiments on how neighboring cells communicate. But after Mr. Defler, no one mentioned Henrietta, ”(5). Henrietta Lacks cells made a great contribution in our medical history, but she Ms. Skloot had to do a serious investigation to even find out more information about the Henrietta. 

Besides the unethical ideas of using patients without their permission, the opposing side has some great arguments. The first one would be that it is a for the greater good of the community.In todays society, our expectancy has dramatically increased because of our medical field. Also, the medical world expands with the growing knowledge it collects from its patience. Without the doctors taking Henrietta's cells in the first place, they would not be helping so many people out to begin with. Finally, the idea that the patient and medical subjects might worry is another idea. The responsibility of the future lying on the life of one person is a lot for one person to handle, and the stress may be even dire if they are dying and have that responsibility.

All those are great points to give the medical field reason not to give consent to patients about using them but it still does not make it right. The fact that it is for the greater good is true, but unethical ideas that used for the greater good are not usually used because of moral reasons. In an article titled “Did Nazi Research Actually Contribute Anything Valuable To Medical Science?”, the author, Mr. Stockton say, “A few things did come from the experiments, however, though for obvious reasons modern scientists can’t verify the results with experiments of their own,”(24). The experiment work from torturing so many medical patients was not even remember for its work in a positive way but as the horrible moment is was in history. Also the the statement that the statement that it makes a breakthrough in the medical field is only true about situation. In the Tuskegee experiment, everyone that participated in the experiment died and the whole experiment was shutdown. The same thing happen with nazi experiments. Their did nothing at all but ruin people lives and the trust of people. 

There is no doubt that using patients and medical subjects are without consent is inappropriate for the medical field. The idea that the patients and medical subject are not being accommodated; are going through unethical acts; and they are losing trust in the people that are suppose to be working to make them better is insane. In the even one is just as much as few. The medical field reason for their study is to help the people. What good would any of it would be if they can not help all the people? They would get no by destroying the trust of the people and killing the people the are suppose to heal. The people that are being used are heroes to the world and at least deserve some of the credit that they deserve to at least know and to a have the choice of being heroes at least. Otherwise,what separates man from animals?  































Work Cited  

Nix, Elizabeth.“Tuskegee Experiment: The Infamous Syphilis Study”.

Accessed April 28, 2018. https://www.history.com/news/the-infamous-40-year-tuskegee-study. Web.  

Skloot, Rebecca. “The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”. Accessed April 2 2018. Print. 

Stockton, Richard.“Did Nazi Research Actually Contribute Anything Valuable To Medical Science?”. 

Accessed april 28 2018. http://allthatsinteresting.com/nazi-research. Web.



