Neat People vs. Sloppy People 

	While reading “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” I was kind of hesitant just from the title and thought it was going be a stereotypical story. But when you start reading it shows that neat people are the ones who are lazy and also meaner than sloppy people. Although when the text gets into the sloppy people there not exactly “sloppy people”, they just have a wide vision and just see so much potential in everything they put their eyes on. 

	My messiness I think classifies me pretty well, because when Suzanne Britt wrote about the messy portion in the text she had got my attention because she was describing me. Such as being caring and loving everything that comes in contact in their life, having a big imagination as well seeing the good things in everything. The biggest thing that put me more on this side was that sloppy people just can’t get neat. 

	The first thing I would like to address is my love and my caring for people. First of all, my love for someone is unconditionally especially if it’s genuine. Such as putting that person first and always making sure everything is fine on that loved one side as well. Also caring in my eyes I would give you my last no matter the circumstances because my love one is happy I am happy. 

	Second of many things that characterized me in this category was having a big imagination. Always seeing the beauty in the worst situation to the best types of situations as well. As Suzanne even said making a scrapbook and having the memories to reminisce about the time you had at the moment. 

	Final characteristic was just not being able to get neat. When the author said that it hit home, because you try and be neat for one second then next you know everything just crumbled down. You try and clean everything but then you get side tracked and start doing something else. Then you come back to what you were doing then boom you are restarting from scratch because you see another outlook and a different way to do what you were organizing. 

	In conclusion I think my sloppiness, in terms of caring is very big because in the story they described a sloppy person as the most caring person. As of neat people just care about themselves and only their well-being. But sloppy people have the big hearts and caring and that’s why I think I am a better fit with the sloppy people. 