 Physical Abuse

	According to NSPCC “one in every fourteen children has been abused. Statistics show that over 6,000 children were identified as needing protection from physical abuse last year.” “The NSPCC’s helpline responded to over 11,000 contacts about physical abuse in 2016/17.” Physical abuse is an intentional act causing injury or trauma to another person by way of bodily contact. Eschooltoday has proven “In most cases, children are the victims of physical abuse.” People across the world are physically abused daily. Physical abuse can be caused by various factors, it has many effects, and there are several possible solutions. 

    Physical abuse can occur for many different reasons. For example, physical abuse can happen as a result of anger, passion, and love. Physical abuse commonly happens due to built up frustration. Also, when a person is passionate about something, he/she wants everything to be perfect. When things do not go as he/she planned, that can to lead to frustration. If matters escalate, this can easily lead to physical abuse of a person close to him just so he can release his anger. Love can also result in physical abuse when someone is in a toxic relationship. According to HealthScopeMag, a toxic relationship is “ a relationship characterized by behaviors on the part of the toxic partner that are emotionally and, not infrequently, physically damaging to their partner.”  “Toxic relationships occasionally lead to physical abuse when the toxic partner becomes too angry and uncontrollable.” 

Physical abuse can have many effects on one’s life. For example, when young people’s lives are surrounded by fear, negative moods, family stress, and parental violence, thoes are all characteristic of physical abuse. There is a profound long-term impact. Research shows that children who live with domestic violence often develop psychological, emotional, and behavioral problems. Also, children who grow up around domestic violence believe it is normal, and often repeat the cycle of violence in their own adult lives. Therefore, children who witness abuse are usually at a higher risk of: Alcohol substance abuse, health conditions like cancer, depression, and diabetes, poor performance in school, and early death.    

While there are many cause and effects of physical abuse, there are also many solutions. According to TM.org “One common solution is therapy. Therapist help people work through their frustrations and find other ways, besides violence, to release their bad energy. Another common solution is yoga. Yoga calms the body and releases bad energy which would prevent one from turning to physical abuse/violence.”

In conclusion, physical abuse is very common, but can be prevented by taking the proper precautions. Physical abuse can cause trauma and poor health conditions that have life-long effects. Avoiding unnecessary arguments and dealing with disagreements the right way are a few ways to avoid physical abuse. Less physical abuse can benefit the world by creating a better environment and keeping our society clean and our death rates low.







					















Work Cited

Physical Abuse, .



Nspcc. “Facts and statistics.” NSPCC, .



eSchooltoday. “What is physical child abuse?” Eschooltoday, .

