Sloppy People”



What is your definition of a neat person? A neat person is someone who is tidy or well-formed. Being a neat person is based on an individual's personal judgement. A way I practice neatness is I clean my room. Getting ready in the morning is a hassle for me and I hate looking for things, to I make sure I don’t go through this every morning is I clean my room thoroughly and make sure everything is straightened out for the week. Neatness is a way to understand how much you care about things in your life because it shows your shows your dedicated have good time management skills, your confident.

Being dedicated to something is a great thing, it show how much effort you put in any time to tackle the given task. That’s how you should see being neat, for example you always clean the entire house every Saturday and you have never missed a Saturday cleaning. Therefore it shows you put in the effort to clean your house every Saturday and dedicated to never missing a Saturday’s cleaning. According to Sam Gosling an associate professor of psychology at the University of Texas, he states “Neat people are generally conscientious they pay attention to order, think before they act. These are the people you want in the air traffic control tower”. Neat people pay attention to order, routines, and technique to make sure something is done properly and efficiently.

If you want to save time being neat is the way to go, you don’t have to waste precious time looking for something if it already has a place for it and not just laying around anywhere. For example at your workplace, your boss asked to provide some documents in his office immediately that he gave you a week ago. But your office desk area is a total mess, I mean papers everywhere, food residue, and trash is all over the place. How are you gone to find this piece of document under all the mess but if you had a specific place where you keep important documents from your boss then you could have easily pulled out the document. Saving time, energy, and putting yourself in danger of losing your job because now your boss knows your a sloppy mess that is not appreciated in a professional work environment.

First impressions means a lot especially in today’s society, so being confident is key. A way to appear confident is to be neat, this shows you have everything under control. Confidence can be described as a belief in one’s ability to succeed, this can be used to your advantage your workplace when your trying to get a raise and the boss is observing the candidate and you are one of them. Neatness improves productivity so that task that has to be done by the end of the day will be done much quicker because you are neat. Also you will feel confident and comfortable by how efficient you are producing. This could also be used in your social life, you have a date and are down because you think she is out of your league. Getting a fresh haircut, new clothes/accessories and other grooming tips can be used to jumpstart that confidence level.

Overall the reason being neat is considered a way to show how much you care about the things in your life is because it shows your dedicated, you have good time management skills, and you are confident. Being a neat person, you are considered taken more seriously that someone who is sloppy especially in the workplace. Neat people get a confident boost because they are in check with themselves and their environment. This can lead having a better social life, getting a promotion at work, and just saves time. Finally, being a neat person makes your life better overall because of how much easier things are going to be for you.











































Work Cited

“Why Cleaning Matters: 3 Reasons to Keep Your Workplace Tidy.” Reasons to Keep Your Workplace Tidy | TriNet Blog

“Five Reasons Why Your Workplace Needs To Be Clean.” Glen Martin Limited, 4 June 2014, 









