Annotated Bibliography

Wrigley, Anthony. “Human Experiments – the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.” The Conversation,     4 Apr. 2018, theconversation.com/human-experiments-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-39876.
Wrigley talks about the limits of consent and how children and adults are unable to protect their own interest and keep them self from harm due to participating in research. The experiment was successful but the method exposed children to a deadly diseases. Wrigley talks about the ethical conflict based on the tension that arises between the researchers concern for the interest of science, society, and future patients. Studying particular conditions such as childhood diseases, research is usually only seen as ethically justified if it does not put a  risk of harm to the patients. 
This will help me backup my thesis for the second paragraph where I will talk about African American children and women are being exposed to deadly diseases without having well knowledge that there being exposed to diseases. 


 Rothman, Lily. “Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks on HBO: Her History.” Time, Time, 21 Apr. 2017, time.com/4746297/henrietta-lacks-movie-history-research-oprah/.
 Rothman talks about how African slaves and Native Americans were used for research whether dead or alive. Slaves bodies were used for experiments after they died, despite the belief of maintaining the bodies after death was religiously necessary. There was a belief that patients who were not able to pay for their medical care would owe their bodies to the medical community as a payment. Patients from marginalized communities like immigrants and the poor did not receive the same consideration that others did. I will use this topic to help backup my refutation, that whether African Americans are dead or alive they are used as a experiment tool.


Stanford University, Alex Shashkevich. “Medical Experimentation on Slaves in 18th-Century Caribbean Colonies.” Stanford News, 10 Aug. 2017, news.stanford.edu/2017/08/10/medical-experimentation-slaves-18th-century-caribbean-colonies/.
Alex states that the United States government let hundreds of black men go untreated for syphilis as part of a medical research experiment. She also talks about the shocking Tuskegee syphilis study that was conducted by the United States Health Service in African American communities. Many souls were subjected to medical experiments. I will use this evidence to help me argue that the government did not do its job in protecting African American citizens from harm.