                        Overcoming The New Kid Concept.





        Being the new kid may be challenging because you are in a new atmosphere. You are required to interact with others, become more independent and adjust to the environment. For instance, coming to college I had to transition from being in high school by walking around campus looking for classes. In high school, classes were all in one building, but here you have to walk from building to building. I overcame the “New Kid” concept by getting to know the school, being sociable, and more confident.

     First, getting to know the school helped adjusting to the new environment. For instance, I avoided being lost by searching online what I wanted to learn regarding the school. Such as, learning about extraordinary places on campus, clubs/organizations and the wide range of majors. A few months before school started, my parents and I, arranged a campus tour. My tour guide discussed several historical facts about the university, residence life, activities and more. Before classes started, my roommate and I, walked around the campus to find our classes. On my schedule I discovered that all of my classes were in the same two buildings which was absolutely an advantage. Although, the first week of school was confusing, I learned that asking others walking or professors where something is located was an effective idea.

      Secondly, being more sociable and friendly helped me accomplish making new friends. While walking around campus, I learned that having a smile on your face is a great way to be noticeable to others. The first week classes started, I realized there were people from other places who were trying to transition as well. So, I took the time to introduce myself to others by telling them my name and where I am from. Prior to starting school, I met new people from social media and from being added into group messages. Also, I previously knew others that attended my university and we had mutual friends. Another way I became more social was going out to parties and events on campus and meeting new people. Starting small conversations with strangers is another way to make new friends, for example a simple “Hello”, “How are you?”.

       Lastly, being confident helped me overcome being shy and to step out of my comfort zone. Participating in class is a useful way to engage with my professors and classmates in a discussion. Also, staying after class is helpful when I need assistance with an assignment or things cleared up. Receiving feedback from my professors play a huge role in being steered in the right direction. Dressing nice and looking presentable makes me feel good about myself, which can be start to having a good day. Most importantly, believing in myself is a mindset I have always had, motivating yourself is an excellent way to get the job done. 

      In conclusion, I overcame the “New Kid” concept by getting to know the school, being more sociable, and more confident. Transitioning to a new school may be challenging because you are in a new atmosphere. Getting to know the school helped me adjust to the new environment and location of everything. In addition, I avoided being lost by scheduling a campus tour before school started.  Also, I learned that walking with a smile on your face is a great way to be noticeable to others and make new friends. Lastly, being confident and stepping out of my comfort zone helped me feel better about myself. Another way I transitioned was by being more outgoing and speaking to others and starting small conversations. To sum things up I have learned several lessons that have made my transition way better and helped me overcome the “New Kid” concept.