 

Expository Essay





    



    

    People have their own meaning of what abuse is and what happens in abusive relationships. Where abuse is actually very broad and has a lot of different types of abuse. Physical abuse/sexual abuse, verbal, and mental abuse. Abuse is treating a person or animal cruelly and or violently regularly or repeatedly. Know the differences and be aware of every sign.

    Physical abuse is probably the first form of abuse that most think of when they hear the word “abuse”. Although, it is most common it is not the only form of abuse. Physical abuse can include kicking, slapping, punching, strangling, etc. Physical abuse also includes invading your partners space and making them feel uncomfortable and physically unsafe. Physical abuse is done intentionally. If someone is experiencing physical abuse then their partner has every intent of hurting them. Sexual abuse can also be a form of physical abuse, but in ways are different. Sexual abuse includes rape and other sexual acts that are forced. Sexual abuse allows the abuser to take advantage of their victim. Most common sexual abuse altercations happen in adults and children. For example, an older man and a younger child. An abuser might use sex to judge their partner and assign them with a certain level of value.

    Then there's verbal abuse, which makes the victim feel mentally abused and worthless. Being verbally abused means that you're hearing things like “your stupid," “your ugly," “no one will ever want you” on the daily basis. Most of the time the victims family and friends will be able to notice verbal abuser patterns, but unfortunately verbal abuse signs are very challenging to spot. Verbal abuse is mentally and emotionally hard to experience and leaves scars that take extremely hard to heal. 

    Lastly, Mental abuse, which is almost similar to verbal and emotional abuse. It makes the victim doubt themselves and breaks down their brain. Mental abusers like to be in charge and want their victim to rely on them as much as possible. Victims begin losing trust in a lot of people and start feeling like their abuser is all they have. Mental abuse victims do not trust their own judgement and tend to hesitate to tell anyone what they are experiencing.This fear keeps victims afraid to speak out on what is occurring. 

    To conclude, people do not really think big when they think of relationship abuse. They form their mind to only think of physical abuse. However, abuse is much deeper than just physical abuse and should be taken more seriously. Abusers want to feel as if they have power and authority over their victim. They break them down physically, verbally, and mentally as well. Just because the abuser is not physically harming their victim, does not mean they are not doing damage.

