How to Identify Love by Knowing What Its Not



	Being more than an adjective or part of a phase, love is a feeling. Love is something you can know without having to inquire or second guess. No feelings of invalidity, but instead total relevance. Love is a and experience, a journey. However, along that journey you may face a bit of difficulty. In many circumstances the difficulty can be implied as abuse. Treating a person with cruelty or violence, unfortunately on a regular or repeated basis. Lets discuss the spectral viewpoint of the different form of abuse.



	Abuse and love do not coincide. Stated by Burroughs, love does not use a fist. Your loved one should never feel the need to put their hands on you in a violent manner. Physical abuse is something that can become very serious and potentially life threatening. On average, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States, equating to about 10 million men and women a year. Very unfortunate statistics, sad but true. Physical abuse is drastic, but is also not the only form of abuse.



	Secondly, verbal abuse is very vital. It is the most common form of abuse, but also the most ignored. For instance, your partner comes home from a long stressful day at work and subliminally takes it out on you. No matter how much you try and give them their space, somehow an argument still arises and results in a few mild insults and comments that can make you go reevaluate yourself. Their intent seems to be to bring you down with them, make you feel lower in fact just for their personal empowerment. Some say words can never hurt you, but they can if coming from a loved one.



	Along with verbal abuse comes emotional manipulation, which in my opinion can be just as harmful as physical abuse. To hack into someone’s mental state, manipulate their personal thoughts and piece of mind, all to alter their personal views in order to keep with you with them is very cruel. Manipulative people have very selfish tendencies and tend to only think of themselves. It ties in with them constantly needing control and overall power over you, putting them one step ahead of you at all times. After while you’ll find yourself catering to them excessively to the point where it drains your happiness. You feel down about yourself more often to a point where you second guess everything you think or do, things that are normally wrong are put into jeopardy, and sooner or later you develop insecurities.

	

	To bring all of these abusive behaviors to a conclusion, you can see the connection amongst them. They all have their highs and lows but still somewhat coincide. Self-love and self-care are the best ways to combat and kind of abuse. Always putting yourself first can ensure more emotional stability. Being in an abusive relationship or situation can be hard to accept, let alone even realize. Nonetheless being a human being, leaves us all imperfect, which is ok. Being kind to yourself, speaking highly of yourself, promote growth and insures the independence that will allow you to free yourself. No one deserves is, but everything in life is a learning lesson. Being boisterous in your self-value, will for sure raise the bar for how others should treat you, and without a doubt ensure your happiness. 