Final argumentative essay



Is global climate change caused by humans? Well yes, various human activity has caused the Earth’s climate to change. Personally, humans are not the only cause of the global climate change there are many different reason to this change but it cannot be defined cause. With the rise of the Industrial Revolution in the 1700s came the use of factories and mass production which led to Global Warming. Global warming is the increase in temperature of the Earth due to humans releasing  large amounts of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Causing the planet to become warmer. While the effect is the planet becoming warmer, this change in the climate leads to the unpredictable change in the weather that we are experiencing now with the chance of snow and the changes in the length of the seasons.



 Climate change starts with the greenhouse effect, The sun naturally gives up heat radiation, some of this goes to space but some comes to the earth and warms up the planet this is our only natural source of heat and without it the world would be constantly in subzero temperatures. When this heat radiation reaches earth it is absorbed. The earth then gives off some heat radiation of its own, this is radiated into space but some of it gets trapped in a layer of greenhouse gases just below the atmosphere. 





In addition, These greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. Carbon dioxide is produced by burning carbon and organic material. Methane is a flammable gas and Nitrous oxide produces exhilaration or anesthesia when inhale.The use of those gases is to  warm the Earth’s surface. Carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere when solid waste, fossil fuels, wood, and wood products are burned. Each individual greenhouse gas absorbs the heat differently. These gases trap heat and cause the greenhouse effect which leads to rising global temperatures. Human activities add to the levels of these gases, causing more problems for the Earth. The burning of solid waste, fossil fuels, and wood products are major causes. Automobiles, heat from homes and businesses, and factories are responsible for about 80% of today's carbon dioxide emissions, 25% of methane, and 20% of the nitrous oxide emissions. The increase in landfills, industrial production, and mining contribute a significant share of emissions too. The gases released into the atmosphere are tracked by emission inventories. An emission inventory counts the amount of air pollutants discharged into the atmosphere. These emission inventories are used by many organizations.This combination of gases deplete the ozone layer and  trap heat in the atmosphere causing climate change.



There are businesses that are the main factor in pollution and climate change. Most factories run on burning fuels and if they can't burn fuel to produce certain products companies will run out of business and many people would be jobless. Stopping Global warming would be a major setback, because the whole point of the industrial revolution was to create jobs and to create products in a faster and efficient way.Now in days most factories have mechanical technology doing most of the work twice as fast and with only the supervision of the employees.Businesses have a responsibility to reduce their contribution to climate change. WWF works in partnership with companies as part of WWF’s Climate Savers Program to set and meet goals to reduce carbon emissions, advance projects to protect their resources from climate impacts, and ensure the sustainability of their core business.









Human releases of CO2 cannot cause climate change as any increases in CO2 are eventually balanced by nature. CO2 gets absorbed by oceans, forests, and other "carbon sinks" that increase their biological activity to absorb excess CO2 from the atmosphere. 50% of the CO2 released by the burning of fossil fuels and other human activities, has already been absorbed.  Personally the climate change cannot all be the effect of the what humans do, the change in the climate may be because of the changes we made in the Earth but the products we create are not all harmful and release fuel that destroy our climate. Humans are too insignificant to affect the climate. How do we really know that the main cause is humans.

		

The extent of global warming in the future is swathed in uncertainty; first, because we have no idea of how much of an increase to expect in greenhouse gases (depending on economic growth), and secondly, because we do not know exactly how our climate system will respond (climate sensitivity).  The climate is always changing in accordance with natural causes and recent changes are not usual. The climate change has no scientific proof that human emissions of carbon dioxide are the dominant cause of the minor warming of the Earth’s atmosphere over the past 100 years. The primary cause of the changes in the climate is the burning of fossil fuels, such as oil and coal, which emits the greenhouse gases into the atmosphere primarily carbon dioxide. Human activities are not the main effects in the change in the climate; though we are the problem we must also be the solution there is cause and effect and right now the effects are treacherous.













 













































References



lobotero. “So You Really Want Me To Write About Climate Change?” In Saner Thought, Wordpress.com, 7 Jan. 2013, lobotero.com/2013/01/07/so-you-really-want-me-to-write-about-climate-change/.

“Overview of Greenhouse Gases.” EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Apr. 2017, .

“Climate Change ProCon.org.” Is Human Activity a Substantial Cause of Global Climate Change?, climatechange.procon.org/#arguments.

Pappas, Stephanie. “What Is Global Warming?” LiveScience, Purch, 10 Aug. 2017, .

Nicklen, Photograph by Paul. “Global Warming Solutions.” Stopping Global Warming, 18 Jan. 2017,  .

“Global Warming : Feature Articles.” NASA, NASA, earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/GlobalWarming/page4.php.

“What Is Climate Change?” TakePart, 11 July 2014, .

“What Is Global Warming?” What's Your Impact, 8 July 2017, whatsyourimpact.org/global-warming.

What's the Difference between Global Warming and Climate Change? | NOAA Climate.gov, 17 June 2015, www.climate.gov/news-features/climate-qa/whats-difference-between-global-warming-and-climate-change.









