The Inappropriate Use of Patients

   

  

              In the past, African Americans have been misused for experiments without their consent. All through slavery, enslaved Black individuals were subjected to incalculable cold blooded and brutal therapeutic examinations and investigations. For instance, a well recognized study known as the “Tuskegee Syphilis Study” was conducted between 1932 and 1972 by the U.S. Public Health Service. They recruited hundreds of African-American men with syphilis, then watched them die slow, painful, and preventable deaths, even after they realized penicillin could cure them (Skloot 50). The list of experiments that were done on African Americans could go on and on.  Another well-known experiment was performed by James Marion Sims’ who conducted research on  without anesthesia. African Americans were taken advantage of because they were seen as unskilled and uneducated. In fact, this study was completely unethical because it was performed without consent. Informed consent is not necessarily signing a form, but it is making sure the patient has an understanding of the procedure including the risks and benefits. Even though, there are benefits with the use of African Americans patients and medical subjects it is inappropriate because it is a violation of one’s privacy, respect, and professional oath. 

                   It is a violation of privacy to do a procedure on a patient without their permission. Informed consent is a fundamental human right that all patients have and ought to follow them wherever they go. Moreover, basic human rights incorporate covering matters, for example, agree to treatment, classification, and pride. With the ability to identify genes from a blood sample or even a single cell, the risk of a blood draw was no longer just a minor infection or the pain of a needle stick—it was that someone could uncover your genetic information. It was about a violation of privacy. (Skloot 187). In the event that a healthcare provider does not reveal the danger of a specific treatment they could be considered in charge of any injuries. George Gey needed to gather tests from Henrietta's body, however to do that he required consent. Nonetheless, there was a law that predetermined it was unlawful to perform an autopsy or remove cells without authorization. Day was deceived into saying yes to utilize Henrietta's cells. He was called and after that later on went to Hopkins to sign papers. The specialists said that they simply needed to run a test and it could possibly help his children someday. (Skloot 89-90). Patients should be able to settle on their own choices about their wellbeing.                    

            Next, it is not respectful to utilize a patient without their consent. Toward the end of her treatments, Henrietta asked her doctor when she'd be better so she could have another child. Until that moment, Henrietta didn't know that the treatments had left her infertile(Skloot 47). Doctors should be transparent and speak with their patients. It is the patient’s body along these lines and the moral activity is to notify the patient. Not notifying the patient can prompt them to feel uncomfortable. Likewise, it is uncharitable to do medical research without consent because the patient should gain recognition for being used. Doctors gain critical information after research is finished. But, the patient is disregarded and gets no credit.

             In the meantime, it is unprofessional to do any sort of research without consent. There are laws that specialists must obey while doing procedures. Doctors are the “most trusted profession”. Doctors hold a special position of power and responsibility that requires trust when performing a professional duty("Medical students and professionalism: why it matters" 2015). Patients should confide in specialists to deal with them. In Black Americans Don't Trust Our Healthcare System, Williams, J. Corey contends that a number of African Americans do not trust their healthcare providers. To back this up he incorporates the history viewpoint and current circumstances. Truly, African Americans were utilized without their consent, for different progressions. Numerous blacks were even forced to take an interest in studies and medical examinations. He argues that in order to fix the ways in which black Americans look at healthcare providers there are a few things that need to be done. Gaining a patient's trust is one of them. Additionally, recognizing the severe history that African Americans experienced is another approach to gain trust inside the group. Likewise, something could turn out badly, for example, a treatment. Specialists ought to be well-educated and have the knowledge to examine the dangers and advantages. Prior to a treatment, the patient ought to be educated and talked about. Patients should be permitted to choose whether or not they want to participate in the trial. If something were to go wrong during a treatment it would the doctors fault because the patient is in their hands.     

           Opposing views claim that utilizing patients for medical research has been gainful. One cannot deny, that the use of Henrietta Lacks cells have not contributed to medical science. Lacks had a colossal influence in opening the entryway that prompt many years of medical advancements. For example,German virologist Harald zur Hausen found that HeLa had duplicates of human papillomavirus 18 (HPV-18) in her cells. HPV is transmitted through sexual contact and causes numerous kinds of growth including cervical cancer. HPV is the type of cancer that murdered Lacks. As time went on, researchers utilized the learning from this exploration to make HPV immunizations. The HPV immunization is utilized for the most part among young ladies to lessen the instances of HPV disease(Samuel 2017).Tissues from millions of Americans are used in research without their knowledge. These “clinical biospecimens” are leftovers from blood tests, biopsies and surgeries. If your identity is removed, scientists don’t have to ask your permission to use them(Skloot 2015).

         However, these views can easily be refuted. While there are some benefits of using patients for medical research, it is still unethical to perform any type of test or treatment without consent. According to ACT Health there are three types of consent. The three types of consent are verbal, written, and implied. There is absolutely no reason why patients are being used without any type of appropriate consent. In addition, if clinicians didn't acquire consent when tissues were taken, scientists would need to endeavor to belatedly find patients and look for authorization to utilize the examples. Inability to do as such would mean the examples could not be utilized, which scientists say would limit the universe of tests and subsequently jeopardize great science.(Scott 2018)

      As a result, despite the fact that there are benefits with the utilization of African American patients and medical subjects it is still inappropriate because it is a violation of privacy, respect, and professional oath. Advocates for the utilization of patients neglect the pessimistic impacts of how it is untrustworthy to incorporate people in a restorative research without their consent. Informed consent is a human right that all patients have and should follow them all over. Doctors ought to be transparent and speak with their patients. Prior to a procedure, the specialist should talk about the dangers and benefits and enable the patient to choose whether or not they want to participate in the trial.       























                                                  

 Works Cited 

“ACT Health.” Informed Consent | ACT Health, .



“Medical Students and Professionalism: Why It Matters.” Medical Professionalism and Regulation in the UK, 15 May 2015, gmcuk.wordpress.com/2015/05/14/medical-students-and-professionalism-why-it-matters/.



Samuel, Leah. “5 Important Ways Henrietta Lacks Changed Medical Science.” STAT, STAT, 13 Apr. 2017, .



Scott, Dylan. “Scientists Warn Obama Proposal May Impede Medical Research.” STAT, STAT, 19 Apr. 2018, .

Skloot, Rebecca. “Your Cells. Their Research. Your Permission?” The New York Times, The New York Times, 30 Dec. 2015, .



Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. (2010): Chapter 5 (47)



Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. (2010): Chapter 6 (50)



Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. (2010): Chapter 12  (89-90)



Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. (2010): Chapter 23 (187)



Williams, J. Corey. “Black Americans Don't Trust Our Healthcare System - Here's Why.” TheHill, 25 Aug. 2017, thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/healthcare/347780-black-americans-dont-have-trust-in-our-healthcare-system.



