                                                               At What Price?  



          Medical breakthroughs are always extraordinary. Advancements and coming up with new medications, cures, therapies, etc. really proves that as a nation there is at least progress in the medical field but, what happens when the breakthrough comes at a cost? The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, by Rebecca Skloot, is a book about a woman named Henrietta Lacks who had cancer and unfortunately passed away. Before she passed doctors took some of her cancer cells to see if they could be used to create medications or cures. Eventually, researchers realized her cells could be used for vaccines the only downside to this breakthrough was the consent. Neither Henrietta Lacks or her family gave the hospital or doctors the specific rights to take some of her cells. Once Lack’s family found out about it they tried to sue. The use of patients for scientific research without consent is inappropriate despite the benefits it has brought about because it takes away the right of the patient and/or family to chose to donate, it violates patient privacy, and the families don’t receive profits if there is a breakthrough. 

             Everyone was born with the same rights and choices. In this case, Henrietta Lacks right was taken away the minute the doctors descritely took her cells without her knowledge. Rebecca Skloot, author of  “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” stated Henrietta Lacks signed a form saying that she “hereby give consent to the staff of Johns Hopkins Hospital to perform any operative procedures”(pg 31). Since she signed that form doctors basically thought that it would be fine to take some of her cells. Technically, she never signed a contract letting them take the cells specifically but this was the hospital’s loophole. So since doctors got Lacks to sign a basic consent form that gives them the right to go behind her back and take her cells to try and find a breakthrough? Consent is the foundation of any experiment(s) or research that have to do with other people. The participants have to know exactly what they are getting into and in this case, Henrietta Lacks did not know the researcher’s intentions with her cancer cells.  

              Patient Privacy is confidentiality between the doctors and patients. Meaning any records, conversations, etc be kept a secret unless the patient says otherwise. Henrietta Lacks did not give permission for the doctors to not only take her cells but to let other people know she had cancer. David Resnik, author of “What is Ethics & Why is it Important?”, stated that we need to “distinguish between acceptable and unacceptable behavior” (para 2). In this instance what Resnik said is very valid. As a doctor, knowing what boundaries not cross is important and this is definitely one of them. A patient needs to be able to feel safe telling their doctor(s) any and everything without their business being aired out to the public. Which is why there is a thing called patient privacy. How can a doctor be trusted with any other patients information after they secretly took cells and didn’t even tell the family? 

                As we know there was a couple of breakthroughs that came from the doctors stealing Lacks cells. Even after vaccines were made, Lacks family still has yet to receive any type of profits. Claire Devine, author of  “Tissue Rights and Ownership: Is a Cell Line a Research Tool or Person”, stated that the family had “did not have a property interest in the cell line developed by his doctor” (para 7-8). Apparently, the doctor claims since he made the vaccines that the family has absolutely no right to any money made from the breakthrough. Little do the doctors know that without Henrietta Lacks there would be no breakthrough at that time. Who knows how long it would have taken for them to find another person with the same cells as Lacks. The profits should have been split evenly between the hospital and/or scientist who came up with the breakthroughs and the family. As stated before, without Lacks cells who knows how long it would have taken to come up with the same breakthroughs. Since Lacks is deceased the next to receive profits on her behalf would be the family.   

                Opponents of these views present several arguments. Even though Lacks or her family didn’t give specific consent the hospital was able to get a general type of consent. So, it is not like they didn’t get any consent at all. Even though Henrietta’s privacy was violated, it was used to come up with vaccines and other medicines that could help other people. The family did not receive any profits but the profits made from her cells can be used to keep making the vaccines. 

                However, these views can be easily refuted. The general consent given was for the operation to try to remove the cancer. Nowhere on the consent for did it give the doctors the right to remove cancer cells for research which could have easily been cleared up if the doctors would have just tried to get consent to keep her cells for experiments. Privacy is a basic right that everyone is given and doctor-patient confidentiality is a law to keep people out of patients business. In this case, the doctors not only broke that law but aired out Lacks business to the world. The hospital never knew what the family would have done with profits they should have received. If the breakthrough was done the correct way the family might have donated back to the hospital. 

              The use of patients for scientific research without consent is inappropriate despite the benefits it has brought about because it takes away the right of the patient and/or family to chose to donate, it violates patient privacy, and the families don’t receive profits if there is a breakthrough.  Medical breakthroughs are only extraordinary when done the correct way. Henrietta Lacks was robbed of her right to chose to donate her cells. Her privacy was also taken away when the doctors decided to tell everyone what she was in the hospital for. Lacks family had to fight for their right to get any profits event though without lacks none of these vaccines would have been made at the time that they were.   





























                                                    Work Cited



Devine, Claire. “Tissue Rights and Ownership: Is a Cell Line a Research Tool or Person” The 

 Columbia Science and Technology Law Review (2010) Para 7-8 

 Resnik, David. “What is Ethics in Research & Why is it Important?”  National Institute

  of Environmental Health Sciences (2015) Para 2-5. 

Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” (2010) pg 31 

               

                 

  

