Taking Care of Themselves 



          When your are physically unhealthy, most believe seeing a doctor is the way to find out what is wrong with your body. Doctors have been granted this right to practice medicine. They have studied to be able to know what’s in the body and what can help fix it. What is against their practices is taking cells or tissue without consent from the patient. In The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks a doctor stole cells from Henrietta without her permission. The usage of patients and medical subject’s cells is inappropriate because it is stealing, the patient and/or family won’t get compensated and recognized, and it’s against the ethic code of doctors. 



          Stealing in any form is wrong. However, stealing from someone who is supposed to be trustworthy is morally heartless. Doctors are held to a code of ethics. This code permits such things like lying and stealing from patient because it is inappropriate. In The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks Henrietta Lacks was in need of medical help for a “knot” in her cervix. What Henrietta didn't know was she had cervical cancer. When the doctor found out, their only priority should have been to find a treat her. However, after he treated her with radium and x-ray therapy he stole some of her cells from her tumor. With these stolen cells George Gey sent them to his lab at Hopkins. Moore v. Regents of the University of California is another example of doctors stealing from a patient. ‘On July 9, 1990, Moore v. Regents of the University of California dealt with the issue of property rights to one's own cells taken in samples by doctors or researchers. “In 1976, John Moore was treated for hairy cell leukemia by physician David Golde, a cancer researcher at the UCLA Medical Center. Moore's cancer cells were later developed into a cell line that was commercialized by Golde and UCLA.” “Moore v. Regents of the University of California.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 30 Apr. 2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore_v._Regents_of_the_University_of_California. 



          Stealing cell from patient impacts them and their family. Stealing cells from patients is also inappropriate because the family or patient won't be compensated after. Back to Moore v. Regents of the University of California case. After the case was brought the California Supreme Court they ruled that “a hospital patient's discarded blood and tissue samples are not his personal property and that individuals do not have rights to a share in the profits earned from commercial products or research derived from their cells.” “Moore v. Regents of the University of California.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 30 Apr. 2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore_v._Regents_of_the_University_of_California. After David Golde take cells he didn't ask for, but he didn’t tell or let compensate the family. The cells were used for commercialized. The Lacks family had the same thing happen to them. After Doctor Gey send the stolen cells to his research lab, the Lacks family had no idea of what “HeLa” cells were, where they had came from, or what it meant when doctors would say the “HeLa” cell was immortal. All of this while the family didn't have knowledge of the use of her cells and didn't receive any financial benefits.



          Doctors or medical specialists  are accountable for maintaining the code of ethics. “Ethics are a way of understanding our behavior toward each other.” Although there are not set manual of having the right ethics, ethics are changed with our values as a society change.  ‘In the case of Henrietta Lacks, her autonomy was violated, at least by modern definitions.  She had little choice as to where she sought care (because of both economics and racism), and her care was delivered with little input from her.  She was not well-educated, and communicating to her the details of her care would have taken a lot of work—work which would have benefited her.  The cancer cells which went on to become the HeLa cell culture were not simply a by-product of her treatment.  They were not leftover from surgery meant to help her.  They were specimens taken explicitly (to the doctors) for research, and this should have been communicated to her.  She should have been given the option of declining the procedure.” Posted by PalMD on February 3, 2010. “More on Lacks Ethics.” Cognitive Daily, scienceblogs.com/whitecoatunderground/2010/02/03/more-on-lacks-ethics/. During the procedure Henrietta Lack was not treated and thought of as a person, but as a test subject.



          Opponents of these views percent several arguments like how the medical research the cells have provided have been amazing to help fight diseases everywhere. Her cells were a tremendous help in cures. Doctor Gey used stem cell research to find cell based cures of diseases of that time. “Stem cells offer a viable source of replacement cells to treat diseases and can potentially reduce the morbidity and mortality for those awaiting transplants. Some of the areas that stem cells can benefit include parkinson's disease, type I diabetes, arthritis, burn victims, and cardiovascular diseases” “Benefits of Stem Cells.” History of Stem Cell Research, www.explorestemcells.co.uk/benefitsofstemcells.html. The use of her cells paid off early in the research process and will continue to help prive information on stem cell cures. Another light of positivity coming from her sells was the opportunity for compensation. In the 1950’s racism was still lingering in America. Doctor Gey used his knowledge to abuse Henrietta Lacks because of the opportunity he had. In the Moore v. Regents of the University of California case the lack of knowledge and ethics done by physician David Golde lead to the families ultimate court decision to not give compensation to the family. However, given a doctor or physician with a good ethical code to do the right thing for the patient and themselves a family could make a conscientious decision to give their cells or not. This allows the right patients deserves to make a choice on their body.

          

          Morally what the doctor did was wrong. He took advantage of the power he had as a doctor, the color of her skin and the opportunity to steal her cells. Doctor Gey didnt think about Henrietta when he stole her cells. He set aside his morals and ethics as a person to think selfishly. Nobody should have the right or authority to taking away the choice of another person.

Nor deny rightful compensation. This could mean fame or money that families may need. Poverty stricken families need money and I am sure that a person would choose to donate cells to escape the poverty hold on them and their families. However, with no choice and no knowledge of what a doctor could be doing to your body a patient and family has no say in how they choose their life.

          

          In conclusion as a patient trusting a medical physician to treat their patient to the best of their ability is expected. The code of ethics apply to everyone. If a person chooses not to respect correct ethics, then people with suffer for it. The doctors that worked with Henrietta Lacks and John Moore didn’t believe in giving their respective patients or their family the right to choose to donate their cells. Stealing isn't right in any aspect, especially then stealing someone's DNA. Just allowing a patient or the family have a choice is important to uphold good ethics as well as give recognition to said patient. Better ethics needs to overrule the benefits of stealing and taking from someone without fair trade. 













Work Cited



“Benefits of Stem Cells.” History of Stem Cell Research,    .



“Moore v. Regents of the University of California.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 30 Apr.     

2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore_v._Regents_of_the_University_of_California. 



Posted by PalMD on February 3, 2010. “More on Lacks Ethics.” Cognitive Daily, scienceblogs.com/whitecoatunderground/2010/02/03/more-on-lacks-ethics/.



The Immortal Life of Henrietta lacks by Rebecca Skloot