Mudbound 

                                                  Mudbound
After America Civil War in (1861-1865), Southern plantation owners were forced to find help working on the land that was farmed by slaves. They then took advantage of slave’s desired to own farms and called them sharecroppers and tenants. Tenant farming is an agricultural production system in which landowners contribute their land. Tenant farmers contribute their labor along with at times varying amount of capital and management. At least tenant farmers own part of the land. While sharecropping is a system of agriculture in which a landowner allows the tenant to use the land in return for the share of crops produced on the land.Henry was a greedy landlord.  Sharecropper in point fall in a huge about the debt which makes them slaves and works to pay a debt in their whole life.Hap Jackson is adamant that he is a tenant farmer rather than sharecropper for the following reason: He is an independent man, his family is well being, afraid to be in debt and his long life dream to own a farm one day.
                  If we followed the movie closely, you will find a kind of man that Hap Jackson is. Hap Jackson is a man of his word. He is very hardworking, independent; he is not subject to another’s authority or jurisdiction, he does not want to be controlled by others. He works every day of his life to take care of his family. And does not want anyone to tell him how to take care of them. He makes sure his family have something to eat every day and are happy as well.
Hap Jackson, as a man of dignity, have enough from people disrespecting him because of his color. Being a sharecropper means he has to feed on his landlord, Henry McAllen. Also, have to work for Henry, not his family. He has to give the majority of the profits to Henry. While being a tenant farmer, you just have to pay your rent for the land. These are some reasons why he was so adamant about being a sharecropper when he was forced to: for his family and his mindset, that does not want anyway controlling his life.
              Moreover, he does not want to be in a debt that will make his grandsons continues to pay in the future. Being a sharecropper will make you fall into a huge debt which you will not be able to pay back and you have to sacrifice to pay it. Hap did not want to do that. He feels like he has made enough sacrifices to be leaving like that. His ancestors did and so he has. So he does not want his children to go through what he went through. Also, his dream was to work on the farm to own his farm one day, not to work for someone in his entire life. He wants his family to have a stable life in the future.
                  Furthermore, Henry is very greedy when it comes to the land. The first time he got on the land, there were about six tenants leaving on the land, He laid them all off. Leaving them jobless and homeless. He is so focused on the fam that he misses what was going around him; he was unhappy, his children, his alcoholic brother Jamie and his racist father.
              His obsession with the farm may make it hard on Hap. His greediness will drive Hap in bigger debt and Hap hate being in debt.