Cleanliness & Messiness





Let all of us be honest right now. If a person was to see someone’s room with clothes, shoes, and various items scattered all over the place, they would immediately judge, right? Right. They would immediately thing that the person is a messy, unorganized human being. Although you see evidence, that is not always the case. Messiness is usually seen as a negative trait about a person, but there are cases where messiness can have a positive impact on one’s mental health, creativity, and general knowledge.





First off, messiness is in direct correlation with a person’s mental health. One may also assume since a person is disorganized and messy, that their mental health may be poor in many ways. Society has put this unnecessary label on people that say that messy people have the tendency to care too much about the smallest things, and can never get rid of them. Although that can be the case, hoarding and just being a disorganized person are two different things. Studies from the New York Times suggest that although that is a popular belief, “messiness is not necessarily a sign of mental disorganization…”, “… some of the most creative and prolific people are inveterate slobs.” This suggests that there can be more than meets the eye, and you should not judge someone’s lifestyle based off of first impressions.





Secondly, many people have justified reasons for having messes wherever it may be. Mess can be something normal for them, and can even be a gateway to creativity for others as well. According to the New York Times, “… clean spaces may be too conventional to let inspiration flow.” Also (according to New York Times), there was a study to test consumer-choice, where the subject has to look through a menu of smoothies while being in a room that was either spotless clean, or had papers, books, and other messes around it. The objective was to see if the subject would clean up the space, or if they would keep the space as it is, and order the smoothies while being nearby the clutter. Studies like these showcase that some people let their creativity flow based of their surroundings.





Lastly, messiness can play have an impact on one’s intelligence and general knowledge. According to RebelCircus.com, a study from a psychological scientist named Kathleen Voh, suggests that those who have messier rooms are more likely to have creative thoughts than those who promote cleanliness. Also, creative thinking is a benefit from having a messy environment because a person is having thoughts that are not like any one else’s. That means there are more people thinking outside of the box. Like Albert Einstein said, “If a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, then what are we to think of an empty desk?”





In retrospect, cleanliness is not always a good trait about a person. Messiness is also not always a good trait either, but there can be many reasons behind that. Yes, messy people can tend to care more about small things, but it is for good reason sometimes. So please, take time to understand that there are cases where messiness can have a positive impact on one’s mental health, creativity, and general knowledge.





Sources:



M.d., Richard A. Friedman and. “BEHAVIOR; Forget Oscar and Felix: Messiness Is No Laughing Matter.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 29 Apr. 2003, .



Kathleen. “It's Not 'Mess.' It's Creativity.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 14 Sept. 2013, .





“Staying Up, Messiness, And Swearing Are Signs Of Intelligence.” RebelCircus.com, 29 June 2017, www.rebelcircus.com/blog/staying-messiness-swearing-signs-intelligence/.



