Unprofessional Doctors 

Introduction	

It is very important that doctors understand that it is unacceptable to not get patients consent for anything dealing with their health. It is in every professional physician’s protocol to make the patient sign consent forms. Throughout history there have been plenty of cases were the doctors did not follow their protocol. 

For example, the Tuskegee Syphilis Study.

Another example is the case of Henrietta Lacks.

However, it is inappropriate to use patients and medical subjects to benefit health research because it can lead to physician’s unemployment, negligent claim, or civil/criminal battery charge. 

Physicians unemployment

Physicians can lose their jobs because they did not follow the right procedures in getting the patients consent. There are different types of consent, written, oral and implied consent. Written consent is a form of documentation. Oral consent is asking permission. Consent can also be implied. For example, the article states “when a patient rolls up their sleeve and offers their arm so the doctor can take their blood pressure.

Doctors could face something called Trust disciplinary proceedings. This is a breach of trust and confidence to deny an employee’s choice of companion under the NHS Complaints Procedure.

Patton also says in order for consent to be valid, consent must be freely and voluntarily given by a patient with capacity who has been given all the information he or she needs to reach a decision. 



In one of the unethical medical experiments someone spoke up about what doctors were doing. Dr. William Thompson was a part of the CDC for more than 10 years. 

The CDC study of experimental MMR Vaccines consisted of the CDC hiding results from a test of experimental measles. All the vaccine did was increase the likelihood of black children to develop autism. 

 The parents were not made aware of the risk developed from the vaccine that was supposed to help their babies.

Negligent Claim

A negligent claim is a failure to exercise appropriate and or ethical ruled care expected to be exercised amongst specified circumstances.

A negligence claim includes three elements Duty, Breach and Causation. 

Duty consists of the defendant owed a legal duty to the plaintiff under the circumstances. Breach consists of the defendant breached that legal duty by acting or failing to act in a certain way. Lastly, Causation consist of the defendant's actions (or inaction) that actually caused the plaintiff's injury

Another study was done in prisons in the 1950s according to newafricanmagazine. African Americans in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania were used to test different products like toothpaste, skin cream, hair dye and soap for many pharmaceutical companies. The person in charge of the study was Dr. Albert Kligman. He was not afraid to tell the newspaper that he was glad he had a large, captive group to work with.

Civil/Criminal Battery Charge 

Battery is criminal offense involving the unlawful physical acting upon a threat, distinct from assault which is the act of creating apprehension of such contact. 

The doctors act can be considered a threat because you are risking someone else’s life to better your own personal research.

There is also something called Medical Battery claim. Medical Battery is the intentional violation of a patient’s right to direct their own medical treatments. When getting a medical battery claim, usually there is no need to prove injury negligence but it is necessary to prove that the medical personnel engaged in unauthorized touching, contact or handling of the victim.



The cloning of Henrietta Lacks’ cells consisted of immortal human cells being cloned in the 1950s as reported by Taylor Gordon. Lacks’ cells were taken from cancerous cervix and non-cancerous cervix for testing without her consent or knowledge. The doctor named George Gey noticed that her cells stayed alive for longer periods of time than other cells.

Conclusion 

Therefore, it is still inappropriate to use patients and medical subjects to benefit health research because it can lead to physician’s unemployment, negligent claim, or civil/criminal battery charge.

If there were consequences for not having consent in the 1900s like there is today most of the doctors and companies would not have gotten away with the miss treating of African Americans.

