First Things First: Getting Permission 

In African American history, it has been witnessed that doctors use patient's information for medical research without appropriate consent. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a 1932 study to record the natural history of syphilis in hopes of justifying treatment programs for blacks called "Tuskegee Study of Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male" was created. This study was conducted without the patients' consent, leading researchers to tell minimal information. For 40 years, the men were told that they were being treated for "bad blood," and were given placebos as their treatment even after the disease became treatable with penicillin during the 1940s. In exchange, the men received free meals, medical exams, and burial insurance. As a patient, there is significant importance of transparency about the treatments, studies, and results given by doctors to patients, the medical community, and society as a whole. Henrietta Lacks was an African-American woman whose cervical cancer cells were taken without her knowledge while under anesthesia. Her cells are the source of the HeLa cell line, the first immortalized cell line and one of the most important cell lines in medical research. This research will help readers to understand that although doctors have stolen Henrietta Lacks's cells and cells from people for research and it benefitted many things, it is dishonest, detrimental, and illegal. 

Conducting this type of research is dishonest to the patients because lies are being told to them and they are not being properly treated. Research has shown that Henrietta and the men from the Tuskegee University research aren't the only people this has happened to. In a 2014 article titled "Lies, Lies, and More Lies," Erin Golotko explains how John Moore was diagnosed with cancer and eventually underwent treatment, signing his consent saying that his cancerous organ will be disposed of properly. According to "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks," "Moore suspected Golde wasn't being straight with him" (Skloot 200). Beyond Moore's knowledge, his doctor, David Goode kept his organ and began to sell a cell line called "Mo," which was stemmed from Moore's cells.  As Rebecca Skloot continues with research, evidence shows how doctors and cancer specialists have lied and omitted important information to their patients for advancements in the medical community.

In "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks" as Henrietta was able to cover her initial stages of her illness secured under wraps, the burden became too much to carry, while her body began to damage. Rebecca Skloot wrote, "One afternoon, as Henrietta lay on the couch, she lifted her shirt to show Margaret and Sadie what the treatments had done to her. Sadie gasped: The skin from Henrietta's breasts to her pelvis was charred a deep black from the radiation" (48). Although Henrietta revealed her scars, she gained witnesses to her suffering and it is evident that radium treatments are just as detrimental as the disease itself. As a matter of fact, Skloot wrote, "Doctors examined her inside and out, pressing her stomach, inserting new catheters into her bladder, fingers into her vagina and anus, needles into her veins" (40). This shows readers that although Henrietta was quickly turned from a patient into a medical subject, she did not benefit from the medical advancements stolen from her.

If an operation is performed without consent from the patient, it is considered illegal. States have provided informed consent laws and although they vary from state to state, they exist to control the certain types of communication between health providers and patients. Informed consent is the core principal in healthcare. It is important to realize that in order for informed consent to be granted, the information provided must be understood. In clinical trial, informed consent requires a more detailed insight due to there being a bigger chance of unknown effects with new treatments that a patient should be aware of. With this in mind, informed consent assumes that the patient has freely chosen the best option for one's self. In Henrietta Lacks's case, she did not receive this option. According to "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks," "Toward the end of her treatments, Henrietta asked her doctor when she'd be better so she could have another child.  Until that moment, Henrietta didn't know that the treatments had left her infertile" (Skloot 73). This is evident that informed consent is imperative. Although informed consent has developed rapidly since the 1950s, it reflects the most recent changes in the practice of medicine that respect the increase of patient's independence.

Opponents of these views present several arguments. The opposing side would argue that the doctors did the right thing by not informing Henrietta of this research because with her consent, there probably wouldn't be any advancements in the medical community and medicines that are provided today. Even though Henrietta did not provide informed consent for doctors to use her cells for research, they have ultimately been able to help other individuals heal, continue life through cells, and create medical breakthroughs. According to Paul D. Andrews via Popular Science, "In 1952, the worst year of the polio epidemic, HeLa cells were used to test the vaccine that protected millions." Although Henrietta is deceased, she remains the mother of modern medicine, providing vaccines while advancing the medical community. According to Jessica Ravitz's "Henrietta Lacks: Her cells, her legacy.” via CNN, she states that Henrietta's cells have allowed for advances in cancer treatment, AIDS research, cloning, stem cell studies, gene mapping, and more.  

Despite the benefits that have been brought about through this matter, stealing someone's cells and using them for research purposes is wrong and unlawful. Throughout Skloot's research, evidence has shown that doctors show no regard for the patients that they use for research. In fact, the research does not benefit the patient in any way, yet their DNA is used to make advancements in the medical community. In addition to this, doctors and scientists can be labeled as untrustworthy. The evidence found in "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks" is confirmation that doctors cannot be trusted to perform on nor treat patients while under anesthetics. 

In conclusion, such use of patients and medical subjects without permission is inappropriate, despite the benefits. Doctors can face serious consequences such as imprisonment and no work time as using patients for medical research without consent is dishonest, detrimental, and illegal. The necessary steps to avoid this problem from resurfacing is to provide exact information about medical procedures before they are performed. In fact, this will provide trust between the patient and doctor, while benefitting the patient and possibly the medical community as a whole.



Works Cited

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

Ravitz, Jessica. “Henrietta Lacks: Her Cells, Her Legacy.” CNN, Cable News Network, 21 Apr. 2017, .

“What Are the Legal Requirements of Informed Consent?” American Cancer Society, The American Cancer Society Medical and Editorial Consent Team, 28 July 2014, . 

“U.S. Public Health Service Syphilis Study at Tuskegee.” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Aug. 2017, . 

“Five Reasons Henrietta Lacks Is the Most Important Woman in Medical History.” Popular Science, Popular Science, 5 Feb. 2010, .

Golotko, Erin. “Henrietta Lacks.” Lies, Lies, and More Lies, 1 Jan. 1970, eringolotko.blogspot.com/2014/03/lies-lies-and-more-lies.html. 