Improper Medical Etiquette Towards Blacks 

Henrietta Lacks, a black woman whose cancer cells were taken as a sample were eventually used for medical purposes without doctors receiving her consent.  Her cells are the first immortal cells every produced by a human and still multiply by the trillions each day. Despite all the medical breakthroughs her cells have helped to achieve when she was alive, she did not get recognized until her doctor at the time, George Otto Gey, was forced to do so. Following her death her family didn’t know her cells were being sold all around the world for profit by successful doctors such as Dr. Gey. To this day her children haven’t inherited money from the marketing of their mother’s cells all across the world (Skloot 2010). Because of this, the use of patients for medical subjects without proper consent is inappropriate since patients will not receive proper recognition, experiments could result in patients’ death, and scientists are given the option to take advantage of uneducated persons. 

Relating to my first point, that if proper consent wasn’t required for experimentation on blacks or any minority what could happen is clear in the reading “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” by Rebecca Skloot. She was given a document to sign that doctors knew she wouldn’t understand nor did they attempt to explain it to her. Dr. Richard Wesley TeLinde, a doctor clarified in the novel as someone who played a major part in the stealing and selling of Mrs. Lacks’ cells for profit. Skloot states “Like many doctors of this era TeLinde often used patients from the public wards for research, usually without their knowledge.” His actions on this statement made by the author were evident in what he did to Henrietta Lacks’ while she was alive and even after her death. Unlike most patients of his, he did give Henrietta a document to sign but ignorant to most things involving medical terms like many, she was misled and influenced to sign something that was not involving the treatment of her cancer. Doctors and scientist did not only limit themselves to just African-Americans as experimental subjects. Besides blacks, cognitively or physically impaired minorities, adults, and children were vulnerable to unrighteous studies as well. In the book, “Against their will: The Secret History of Medical Experimentation on Children in Cold War America” collectively written by Gregory J. Dober, Allen M. Hornblum, & Judith L. Newman, tells readers about how researchers took advantage of children who were disabled and instructed them to go through treacherous experiments. In the reading, the authors then state that “The children were caged like guinea pigs in a laboratory” (Dober 2014). The quote supports that minorities and disabled persons were not being given the proper recognition they deserved. Despite the various medical breakthroughs, that they made possible by being sacrificed as subjects to inhumane experiments.

Secondly, arguing that experiments could result in patients’ death. In the book “Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present.” written by Harriet Washington. She writes that “African Americans were given experimental vaccines known to have unacceptably lethality resulting in their death.” (73-75) Throughout the 1900s numerous scientist and doctors were known to utilize blacks as “guinea pigs” for their scientific experiments. (Gordon 2014) This was done by researchers trying to gain more knowledge about how long it would take for a disease to spread through the human body and ultimately kill them. These are just a few of the different types of subjects that people of color and less fortunate people in society were subject to by force or unknowingly. The first showcase of this sort of behavior from scientists became public to the world when the Tuskegee Syphilis Study in the Negro Male took place from 1932-1972. Poor, uneducated, black men were infected with the Syphilis Disease, like most studies at this time without researchers receiving the benefit of proper consent from the patient. To get the men to participate, researchers told them they were being treated for “bad blood”. In exchange for the men being subjects to the study, they received burial insurance, free meals for their families, and free medical exams. Although the projection of how long the study would last was six months, it lasted over 40 years. Killing approximately 128 men, from the original 399 men, only 74 of them were still alive. Once funding was lost for the treatment, men who were infected prior to this were never properly informed that they would not be treated. They were never notified that they had the disease. In 1947, Penicillin was proven to successfully treat Syphilis and the researchers still did not grant the men proper treatment to spare their lives (Gordon 2014).

Found in an article called “White Torture of Black Bodies” A black truck driver by the name of Edd Cade in 1945 got into a near death accident where almost all his bones were broken. When he arrived at the hospital, the doctors without consent from anyone injected him with Plutonium. Before this toxic injection could completely take over his body he escaped from the hospital assuming he caught on to what was being done. Plutonium and Uranium were part of a radiation experiment that was being done at the time on African Americans without their consent or knowledge. Cade died eight days later after his escape from the hospital (Cornell 2014). The power that white doctors had over black patients was evident in the way they were treated within a medical setting. White doctors did not feel obligated to carefully and thoroughly treat sick blacks because of how society viewed them and painted their persona to be. 

This was evident in the case of the Pellagra Incident that took over much of the south beginning between 1915-1916. Pellagra is a disease usually caused by the lack of vitamin B3 in an individual’s diet. Patients affected with this disease develop skin lesions and severe sensitivity to sunlight, as the disease carries on the patient develops dementia and dies. The epidemic began in South Carolina proceeding on to the neighboring southern states predominately occupied by black sharecroppers and farmers. Within one year, 100,000 blacks died from this mysterious disease that no one had ever had an encounter with or heard about. Once scientists studied into this epidemic they figured out that it was connected to toxins found in corn that was grown and eaten by most southerners because it was cheapest to grow and consume. From this, in 1915 Surgeon General Joseph Fisherman conducted a study on U.S prisoners and found that it was simply lack of Niacin (Vitamin B3) in a human’s body. This information was not revealed to the public until 1953. The director of U.S Public Health Services, Hugh S. Cumming, made it clear that they withheld the cure of the disease for over 20 years because most of deaths from the Pellagra disease only took place in impoverished, black populations. So, to these privileged white scientists they did not see it as their problem, they viewed it as doing the world a favor by holding back the cure (Tuttle 2014).

Just as the Tuskegee Syphilis Study was done to exploit and take advantage of vulnerable targets. In the book “Acres of Skin” written by Allen Hornblum told the story of human experiments at Holmesburg Prison located in Philadelphia that were perform on mostly African-American inmates until the 1970s. Black prisoners were used to conduct experiments that researchers wanted answers to, leaving some with mental illnesses that required medical attention. And if not mental illness, prisoners developed forms of cancer and skin conditions (Hornblum 1998). In relation to this type of manipulation tactic of vulnerable targets in their rawest form, in the book “Willowbrook Wars” by David & Sheila Rothman. For 13 years from 1956-1970, children who were deemed mentally retarded and attended Willowbrook State School located in Staten Island, NY. Were deliberately infected with hepatitis so doctors could keep track of how the infections that was viral at the time spread throughout the human body. In this study over 700 mentally disabled children were infected with Hepatitis and over 90% of the children who attended the school had contracted it (Rothman 1984).

Lastly, using patients for medical subjects without proper consent is inappropriate because it allows scientists to take advantage of patients they know who are uneducated. James Marion Sims, is a surgeon of the 1800s and known best as “the godfather of gynecology” he performed most of his surgical experiments on enslaved women without their consent who were vulnerable to his inhumane practices without anesthesia (McGregor 2007). He felt that it was not needed. Occasionally he would explore and operate on Men and Children but it wasn’t usual. His most known work was his reproductive experiments that he performed on African-American women. Over 5 years he worked towards curing a childbirth complication called “Vesicovaginal Fistula”. This required him to perform various incisions on the female genitalia repeatedly. Following this he headed North where most of his medical fortune was acquired. Although these women at the time withheld any legal human rights due to slavery being legal, those Men, Women, and Children were still used for treacherous human anatomy experimentation without giving Dr. Sims the appropriate consent he needed (McGregor 2007).

Opponents to these views present several arguments, one being that this way of conducting research from samples of patients who did not grace doctors with proper consent is acceptable. Researchers’ reason for feeling this way is because, it benefits majority of humanity with medical breakthroughs. Despite improper consent they feel breakthroughs would not be possible unless they contracted samples from patients who were not given the appropriate options to say yes or no to being a subject of study.

However, this argument can be refuted. Due to high risks that patients are susceptible to by being put through trials, that were not properly brought to their attention. The idea of utilizing patients without their knowledge is far more serious than the breakthroughs of medical research. If a patient happens to die because of errors in the study, it should be viewed as murder. One person should not be considered a sacrifice for majority of humanity to help achieve breakthroughs in research. It disregards basic human rights by extracting any form of a sample without a patient’s proper consent.

In conclusion, patients should not be subject or susceptible to medical experimentation without the doctor receiving the appropriate consent from the patient, because it is no clear indication that patients are definitely knowledgeful as to what they will be engaging in and making themselves vulnerable to. Because of this the use of patients for medical subjects without proper consent is inappropriate since patients will not receive proper recognition, experiments could result in a patient’s death, and scientists are given the option to take advantage of uneducated persons.









					Annotated Bibliography                              

Byrd, Michael, and Linda Clayton. “Americans Health Dilemma A Medical History of African Americans and the Problem of Race: Beginnings to 1900. Taylor and Francis (2000): 10-11. Authors of the novel provide a baseline for the future exploration of the connection between race and medicine, while explaining how racism plays a major part in the American health system. By social analysis of race, relations between raced, medicine, and the experience of African Americans dealing with medical and public health. Writers explain that “Historically, African Americans have been exploitative, abusive involuntary, experimentation at a rate far higher than other ethnic groups.” By stating this it supports the final point in my thesis that scientist took advantage of blacks who were oblivious to the world of medicine.

Dober, Gregory, and Allen Hornblum, and Newman, Judith. “Against their will: The Secret History of Medical Experimentation of Children in Cold War America.” Palgrave Macmillan (2013): 121-123. Writers uncover the unknown history of the immoral and treacherous medical experiments performed on children in the United States during the Cold War. Using the children who were classified as cognitively or physically impaired, aside from the technical and storytelling of children involved in the experiments the authors wrote “The children were used like caged guinea pigs in a laboratory.” This quote supports the first that patients won’t receive proper recognition. As well as being discriminated again because of their disabilities which was a result of patients being taken advantage of as they were.

Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” Crown Publishers (2010): Skloot tells the story of the mysterious story of Henrietta Lacks. Whose cancerous cells were contracted and eventually sold around the world without her consent. Never receiving proper recognition and her family never inheriting compensation for the discoveries “HeLa” has made. Also writing “Many scientists believed that since patients were treated for free in public in the public wards, it was fair to use them as research subjects as a form of payment.” Confirming the final point in my thesis statement that scientist will take advantage of uneducated patients if inappropriate consent methods are practiced.

Washington, Harriet. “Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present. Harlem (2007): 73-75. Washington’s focus is on the long history of medical experiments that African Americans were the unwilling or unwitting subjects of.  She further writes that “African Americans were given experimental vaccines known to have unacceptably high lethality resulting in death.” She then states that through the different stories involving racism within medicine, shows that African Americans were unwilling or unwitting subjects to the experiments they were apart of. This supports the second part in my thesis that argues without proper consent could result in a patient dying.



				

Hornblum, Allen M. “Acres of Skin Human Experiments at Holmesburg Prison.” Routeledge. 2012.



				Website Sources

McGregor, Deborah. “James Marion Sims.” Encyclopedia of Alabama, 2007. Web. 20 Apr. 2018











