A summary of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks 

Rebecca Skloot’s, 2010, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, is the story of an African American woman whose cells were taken by her doctors without consent. Henrietta’s story begins when she is diagnosed with cancer. While receiving treatment Henrietta’s cells were taken by her doctor and used long after her death for medical research. Throughout the book, Rebecca Skloot tells the story of Henrietta Lacks and her family’s life, while having a conversation about the corrupt history of the medical system. Chapter 14 begins with Skloot confronting the history of Henrietta’s name. After years of using the HeLa (Henrietta’s Lacks) cells, curiosity of who Henrietta is, became a public question. The doctor, George Gey, who treats Henrietta Lacks is questioned by the media numerous times. Gey decides he doesn’t want to reveal the name or life of his patient to the media. He continuously refuses to give any information about Henrietta, but someone eventually leaks her name to a reporter. When the reporter finally writes an article about the HeLa cells, Henrietta Lacks last name is spelled wrong. After this mistake happens George does an interview about the cells but doesn’t correct the misinformation in the article about Henrietta’s name or story. Skloot transitions back to the earlier years of the Lacks family in chapter 15. After the death of Henrietta, her children fall ill. Day is unable to care for all the children alone, so family and friends take turns helping. Eventually Ethel, a woman who hates Henrietta, and her husband, Galen move into the Lacks home to permanently help with the children. For years Ethel takes her anger out on Henrietta’s children. They all endure violent abuse at the hands of Ethel. While this is happening, Henrietta’s daughter, Deborah is being sexually abused by Galen. The eldest of the siblings, Lawrence meets Bobbette after he gets back from war. Bobbette doesn’t like how the younger children are being treated, so she invites them to live with her and Lawrence. Skloot reveals the affect that Henrietta’s death has on her children. Skloot fast forwards years later to her meeting with Henrietta’s cousin, Cootie. He explains to her that if she wants more information, she must speak with another cousin named Cliff. When Skloot meets with Cliff he takes her to the Henrietta’s grave. The author speaks about the history of the Lacks family during slavery. Henrietta’s family had relations with the white people, who owned them at the time. Eventually Skloot goes to interview the other half of the Lacks family. Carlton and Ruby Lacks are white descendants of the same family. She asks if they know anything about Henrietta and the couple reveal they’ve never heard of her. Skloot goes to talk to Henrietta’s sister, Gladys. She says that the black and white Lacks don’t get along. In chapter 17 Skloot changes the topic completely. She tells the story of a man named Chester Southam. While Henrietta’s cells advance medicine, they also became a weapon in the hands of some people. Chester Southam wants to know what affect the HeLa cells have on people. At first, he injects the cells into people who are already diagnosed with cancer. This causes those patients to grow tumors in their arms. Eventually, he starts to inject people who don’t have cancer. Once people find out about Southam’s experiments, he is put on trial. Although his actions are corrupt and immoral, Southam is barely punished for his crimes.

In chapter 18, Skloot goes through a list of all the medical and scientific information that Henrietta Lacks cells discover over time. Henrietta’s cells were sent to space to see the difference between regular human cells and the HeLa cells in a different environment. Eventually the doctors and scientist that use HeLa cells became disorganized and need fresh cells to work with. George Gey isn’t any help because he gave all his first samples of the cells away, so now all the HeLa cells have been cross contaminated. Skloot changes the discussion to the topic of different combinations of cell. Chapter 19 rewinds back to the early years of the Lacks Children. Deborah is now pregnant at the age of 16 and finishes school with help from Bobbette. Deborah’s brother, Joe on the other hand isn’t doing as good. He gets discharged from the military after his anger becomes a problem. When Joe gets home, he gets into a fight with a guy who harasses him. Joe ends up stabbing the guy and gets 15 years in jail. While in jail he coverts to Islam and changes his name to Zakariyya Bari Abdul Rahman. Deborah marries the father of her child, but he soon becomes abusive. Eventually, Deborah must leave her husband because it is too much for her to handle. Skloot begins discussing the discoveries of a geneticist named Stanley Gartler. During a conference about cell tissue, Stanley brings up the contamination of the HeLa cells. He discovered that all of Henrietta’s cells have a genetic marker that is unique to black Americans and that HeLa cells can float through the air on dust particles. The other scientist who are at this conference doubt Gartler’s research, but soon discover he is telling the truth. A new test is developed, and this brings Henrietta’s family into the story of her cells. The author transitions to her narrative of the present time. It is just a couple months after, Sonny, one of Henrietta’s children didn’t show up to meet her. When he finally meets with her, Sonny says she must get approval from Lawrence to talk about Henrietta with the family. Skloot sits with the entire family as they tell her about their distrust of doctors and hospitals.

 In chapter 22, Skloot is now discussing the life of George Gey. By 1970 Gey learns that he has pancreatic cancer. He asks his doctors to take cells from his tumor for research, but they can’t because his tumor can’t be operated on. George Gey insists on giving to science one way or another. On his death bed he tells his lab tech that Henrietta’s name can now be revealed. After Gey’s death researchers scramble around for a cure for cancer. Henrietta’s cells can only help so much because of the cross-contamination problem. As time passes a group of Russian scientists find a cancer virus in Russian cells, it turns out to be the HeLa cells. When the media misspells Henrietta’s name again, other scientist believe it is time for Henrietta Lacks to get her recognition. Chapter 23 discusses how the family discovers that Henrietta’s cells are being used in labs without them knowing. Lawrence’s wife, Bobbette meets a man who works for the National Cancer Institute. She is shocked and creeped out to hear him mention Henrietta’s name during the conversation. This new information creates a new discussion around consent of the human body. Skloot discusses the media’s part in the story of Henrietta Lacks. She describes an article written about the Lacks family written in the Rolling Stone by a man named Michael Rogers. Skloot discovers that there are other articles and essays that were written about private information without the family’s consent. Skloot speaks of legal action that can be taken against the people that have wronged the Lacks family. The author transitions to an incident like Henrietta’s story. A man named John Moore finds that he has a rare form of leukemia, so he goes to a doctor at UCLA for treatment. This doctor, David Golde uses Moore’s cells for the next seven years without consent. Moore sues Golde over the ownership of his cells, but eventually was overruled by the supreme court of California. Henrietta’s family isn’t aware that any of this is happening.