Spectrum of Abuse

Love is one of the most powerful, yet also one of the most dangerous emotions known to man. Some people have different ideas about what love means to them, but there are also some who believe that their affections are justified by having complete control over their partners. From the chapter “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” by Augustan Burroughs in This Is How, the author goes on to explain what love shouldn’t be. Augustan explains to his audience the difference between love, the spectrum of abuse: physical, mental and verbal, and how to distinguish between the two.

Understanding someone’s intentions and someone’s emotions towards you can be a difficult task to accomplish, but there should always be a form of understanding between the two. From the chapter, Augustan says, “Love never calls you fat or lazy or ugly…Love does not maintain a list of your flaws and weaknesses” and Joseph Goebbels once said, “Repeat a lie often enough and it becomes the truth”. Verbal abuse has that effect on people, having it constantly repeated to your face that you don’t amount to anything and that you don’t fit in because of your looks can make or break people. But there is also physical abuse as well as Augustan includes in the chapter, “Love doesn’t use a fist…Love certainly never, never brings the children into it”, there are people in relationships who can’t escape because the have been beaten and can’t seek aid or because their children need to be taken care of and the abusive relationship is their only lifeline. Both types of abuse converge into another form of abuse, mental; after being beaten and talked down on, you tell yourself that their lie is your truth and it can be difficult to recover from that.

While it can be difficult to accept that people are abused every day, Augustan adds points in this chapter that explains what someone who loves you should do for you. “It is not in Love’s interest for your self-esteem to be low...Love believes in you”, and there still people who may have a partner that may “love” you but do they support you is the question. Your partner is there to support your dreams and do what they can to get you there, not tell you that your chances of obtaining your dream is ‘one-in a million’ and casually go-on about their day. Now love isn’t easy, and some people deal with their emotions through ways they have seen their family members do, whether that is drinking, smoking or abusing their partners, there are some people who deal with their problems through communication. Communication can bring out problems you never realized beforehand and can be solved gradually over time as Augustan say that, “Love is patient; Love does not make a point of showing you how patient it is”.

There are some who believe that their actions against their partner are justified and that they are showing them love and their partner will believe that. However, Augustan ends the chapter by saying to his audience that, “It is critical to understand the distinction”, saying that it is up to you to determine if you are in an abusive or loving relationship, but for some people it isn’t that easy. There have been report all over the news about various women who have tried to leave their abusive boyfriends by reporting to the police or threatening to leave them and have ended up dead. “Love does not ask or even want you to change”, which holds true to an abusive relationship, as the partner has the mindset that bringing change will change the dynamic of the relationship making him/her inferior and not in control, which leads to drastic actions. 

Augustan Burroughs reeled his audience in by talking about the signs of abuse and how to distinguish the difference between a loving and destructive relationship. Whether physical or verbal, abuse is a dangerous action that can break individuals and can influence the next generation. Burroughs talks about how love is supposed to be caring and supportive towards you through any given situation, and how, “Love is a helium-based emotion; Love always takes the high road”, meaning it dissipates and well move on eventually, telling his audience that it is always better to take the high road than to prolong your suffering. Love is not the easiest emotion to control and there are times when we cannot control who we love, but it is better to have love lost than no love at all, and learning that abuse is not the way to go to express your emotions. 



Burroughs, Augustan. This Is How “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not”, 2012