The Limited Expectation Of Woman



During the nineteenth century, women have been forced into a life of gender inequality. At this time, women were not allowed to vote, own property, or get an education. Women were seen as the weaker sex and they were to be protected by men. Viewed as homemakers, expected to be subservient to their husbands. The types of work were very limited. Middle-class women remained home caring for there children and household duties. While lower-class women were left to do hard labors like gardening, growing crops, or any other fieldwork. Women in the United States were treated like second-class citizens. In "Mudbound," by Dee Rees, Both Florence and Laura have accepted to a life of subservience to their husbands. Submitting to the role of women in society by making sacrifices, caring for children, and completing household duties.



First of all, Laura and Florence are both shown to have to make a lot of sacrifices for their families. Such as Laura leaving her house for the farm, to support her husband. And Florence having to leave her family, to help Laura with household duties. Having to leave her son and daughter. Creating somewhat of a friendship despite the racial tension. Especially after Florence, helps nurse, Laura's sick kids back to health. This moment of grief bonds them as only two mothers can bond. Both are living on dirt and hard-working, but the racial stature is clear and dividing.



Secondly,  Women worked mostly at the home, taking care of the children while their husbands were at work.  They were happy to bring up a healthy family and see their sons and daughters well placed in life. At this time, the mother would always be closest to the child because the father was working.  For example, when Florence says,“Something bad happens to a child, you can be sure his daddy gone be off somewhere else.” This showed how much the father had little to do with their children. They play a role as a mother and a father, caring for their children as best as they can. Since women couldn't get the same job opportunities as much as men, women had to take the responsibility for childcare.



Lastly, completing household duties was a woman's main job. Women were not considered able to perform tasks in the workplace and were not able to obtain their own careers. During this time women were subservient to men and were happy and appreciative to play their role at home and preside over the destiny of the household. They looked over many chores of the house and it came naturally to them. Cooking and cleaning were all women knew at the time.While the men were working freely, women were trapped working house chores. Compared to Florence, Laura is really lazy, she hires Florence to help with the household duties. Leaving Florence to cook and clean for not just one but two families.



To Conclude,  For centuries, women have been confined to faced intense gender inequality from a lack of legal rights and very little independence from their lives and husbands, to being labeled second-class citizens. In many societies, women have long been viewed as the weaker sex. Dee Rees "Mudbound", is a powerful story on racism. Set on a small farm, The author recognizes these hardships and relates them to the situation in the story.  Women of the past were incarcerated in their own bodies, not being able to live how they want or should. The different genders were not the only hardship but the race as well, this story of racism and prejudice of the life they lived. The past was treacherous for women, the relationship between Florence and Laura has it's racial differences but a motherly love is what bonds them together.



