The Stolen HeLa Cells 

In the Rebecca Skloot’s book The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Ms. Henrietta Lacks was the break through that scientists and doctors needed in the fight with diseases such as cancer. Doctors have been looking for a form of cells that do not end up dying in the next couple of days so that they could experiment on it with other diseases. Henrietta contained something in her body that no one else in the world had, which are immortal cells. The big problem was that the doctors who treated Henrietta’s illness stole her cells and used it for medical research without informed consent. The use of African American patients and medical subjects is inappropriate despite the benefits it has brought because it is selfish, untrustworthy, and illegal.

Doctors use of patients for medical research is considerably selfish because the patients were not being taking care of properly by the medical staff at Johns Hopkins. In chapter eight A Miserable Specimen The chapter revealed that:

Three days later, when she returned complaining once again of pain, a doctor pressed on her abdomen and felt a “stony hard” mass. An X-ray showed that it was attached to her pelvic wall, nearly blocking her urethra. The doctor on duty called jones and several others who’d treated Henrietta; they all examined her and looked at the X-ray. “Inoperable,” they said. (Skloot 64-65)

The doctors at Hopkins who treated Henrietta, overlooked her complaints and continued to send her home after the repeated attempts of her coming back, and when they finally looked at her thoroughly it was too late, and she was inoperable. This shows that even when Henrietta kept coming back she still was not being properly taken care before. The chapter also revealed that “A doctor put Henrietta’s feet in stirrups once again, to take a few more cells from her cervix at the request of George Gey, who wanted to see if a second batch would grow like the first” (Skloot 56-57). This shows that even when Henrietta was at the borderline of death the doctors there didn’t care about her except her cells.

In addition, the doctors at Johns Hopkins are now considered as untrustworthy because of their past actions towards African American patients. Back in the 30’s when the institution of Tuskegee made a study, they were trying to figure out how syphilis went from an infection to death. So, what did they do? It was said that “they recruited hundreds of African-American men with syphilis, then watched them die slow, painful, and preventable deaths, even after they realized penicillin could cure them” (Skloot 50-51). The doctors at Johns Hopkins took advantage of many poor uneducated black African Americans so that they could do research on syphilis. Then when the 70’s came along word had gotten out:

The news spread like pox through black communities: doctors were doing research on black people, lying to them, and watching them die. Rumors started circulating that the doctors had actually injected the men with syphilis in order to study them. (Skloot 50-51) 

How could one trust a doctor who lies to them telling them that they are about to be injected with a vaccine when in actuality they are poisoning them with syphilis. Therefore, doctors at Johns Hopkins are now evaluated as untrustworthy.

Not only is what the doctors did in the Tuskegee study considered as untrustworthy it is also looked at as being illegal. The doctors watched as the hundreds of African American men died due to syphilis, when they contained the cure to it, which was penicillin. Moreover, that was not the only illegal actions that Johns Hopkins Hospital did. Looking back into the book The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, doctors had been taking cells from any woman who walked into Hopkins with cervical cancer without informed consent, which is when “Patient must sign consent forms which clearly state what the research is, how long it will last, what the potential risks are, if there is any compensation, and more” (Carpio 1). Furthermore, it’s said that “The failure to obtain conformed consent in situations where it is legally required is a tort” (Ruth, Tom 25-26). A tort is a wrongful act or the action of breaking the terms of a law leading to civil legal liability. This proves that what the doctors did at Johns Hopkins were also known as being illegal. 

Opponents of these views present several arguments. They also say that the discovery of HeLa cells was a break though with the fight between people and cancer. Even though they stole Henrietta’s cells they did it with good intentions in mind. They were trying to look for an immortal cell, so they could fight off all kinds of diseases. It was said that “It is well acknowledged that many biological diversities wouldn’t have been possible without the HeLa cell line” (Chan 1). The death of one person will save the lives of many from suffering from a disease. Even in some of their researches the patients were offered incentives like free physical exams, hot meals, and rides into town on clinic days. They even offered 50 dollars’ worth of burial stipends for the families of the patients who died. 

However, these views may easily be refuted. Just because it was research for the greater good, does not mean that it was ok for those doctors to take the lives of several African American patients for their own research. And only offering 50 dollars, some food and, free physical exams did not seem like it was enough for the patients or their families who were living in poverty. Informed consent is still a part of the law and therefore it must be reinforced, no matter what their intentions were for.

 In conclusion the use of African American patients and medical subjects is inappropriate despite the benefits it has brought because it is selfish, untrustworthy, and illegal. Doctors in johns Hopkins were looked at wrongly by the entire black community because of what they heard were happening inside of that hospital. Even though Hopkins was one of the only hospitals that excepted colored they are now accused of killing many human beings who could easily be taken advantaged of. Now that they have made their breakthrough in research the white doctors will always known for their genocide and experimentation at Johns Hopkins.

 




Work Cited

Berg, J., Appelbaum, P., Lidz, C. and Parker, L. (2001). Informed Consent Legal Theory 		and Clinical Practice. 2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford University, pp.1-5. 

This book is another source that I can use to tell the readers that what the doctors had done was against the law. The quote I used is “The doctrine of informed consent is most 	fully within American Law.” This quote will add on to my case/ reasoning that if you did not establish informed consent then you are most definitely going against the law.

Faden, R. and Beauchamp, T. (2018). A History and Theory of Informed Consent. 1st ed. 		New York, pp.1-22. 

My quote explains the illegal action of informed consent and says, “The first and most important for the current legal doctrine of informed consent is “Tort Law.” A “Tort” is a civil injury to one’s person or property that is intentionally or negligently inflicted by another and that is measured in terms of, and compensated by, money damages. Civil injuries, which are punishable by imprisonment or by fines as penalties to the state.” I am going to use this quote to explain why not using informed consent is considered as an illegal action. This quote will show that what the doctors did was punishable by imprisonment or by a heavy fine.

Skloot, R. (2010). The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. New York, pp.1-53. 

This book is a good source of information and quotes, so I used the quote “Doctors examined her inside and out, pressing her stomach, inserting ne catheters into her bladder, fingers into her vagina and anus, needles into her veins.” I chose this quote so that I can use it when talking about how the doctor’s actions were villainy.

"The Good, The Bad, And The Hela". Berkeley Science Review, 					2014, http://berkeleysciencereview.com/article/good-bad-hela/. Accessed 27 Apr 2014.

I used this site to get a definition on what informed consent was and found the quote “Patient must sign consent forms which clearly state what the research is, how long it will last, what the potential risks are, if there is any compensation, and more.” This quote will help me establish what informed consent is and will help me justify why it is illegal for doctors to do research on patients without there knowledge. 

"Henrietta Lacks Cells Are Still Protecting Women From Cervical Cancer". Huffpost, 2017, 	.

I chose this article because it tells me about the improvements of what the Hela cells did to hell women all around. I will use the quote “It is well acknowledged that many biological diversities wouldn’t have been possible without the HeLa cell line.” This will be uses in my opposition paragraph to help me get a different view point.



