Reality of neatness



	Is neatness really a way to understand how much you care or do not care about the things in your life? Interestingly, according to researchers, ones cleanliness could potentially affect their health as well as their relationship with others. Neatness does not contribute to whether or not a person cares about the things in their life. In the essay “ Neat people vs Sloppy people”, Suzanne Britt argues that neat people are callous and insensitive. Neat people have little regard for personal possessions, other people, and time management in their lives.

	Neat people have little regard for the personal possessions in their lives. In the text the author states that neat people have “cavalier attitudes towards personal possessions” and this can even include items of sentimental value. Items such as family heirlooms, and  birthday cards all get tossed out. According to them, these sentimental items are “dust-catchers” and hold no value in their life. Along with sentimental items, neat people also get rid of all their documents. Britt states in the text that neat people “ never handle any item twice, and throw everything away”. Documents such as mail,  pleas for charitable contributions, and church bulletins get tossed in the trash without being looked at. They’ll get rid of furniture, and  throw away items that are in perfectly good condition. Personal possessions hold no value and importance in a neat person's life. 

Neat people also have little regard for the other people in their life. Neat people are insensitive when it comes to the other people in their life.The author states that neat people “ place their neatness above everything” including their own family. They’ll toss away letters written by deceased family members because their only concern is minimizing the amount of clutter they think has accumulated. Their children also have no value in their lives. Britt states that they would go as far as  “ throwing the children out of the house” just to cut down on the clutter. This just shows how insensitive they are towards the other people in their lives. 

Neat people have little regard for time management in their lives as well. They spend most of their time trying to cut down on clutter and organize. The author mentions that they “ like results” so they want to get rid of everything. They’ll organize pantries, medicine cabinets, dens, attics, and mail when they could be spending this time doing other productive things. According to the article “ Neatness a sign of godliness ー or compulsion?” written by Melissa Schorr, Amie Ragan, a clinical psychologist stated that “ It’s a problem when your need for constant order causes you extreme distress.” If you spend your time constantly wanting to clean you can cause major stress on your body. Time management is not important to a person who is neat.

Neat people do not view the personal possessions, other people, and time management as an important factor in their lives. Just because a person is neat, does not mean they care more than those that are not.  Generally, neat people the people and the things in their lives as one. Their neatness is placed before their family as well as their personal lives.  They are insensitive when it comes to a lot of things. Sentimental items do not hold any importance to them. Everything is a waste. Neat people should consider the personal possessions, other people and time management as valuable. 








Works Cited

Schorr, Melissa. “Neatness a Sign of Godliness - or Compulsion?” NBCNews.com, NBCUniversal News Group, 12 Mar. 2008, www.nbcnews.com/id/23565682/ns/health-behavior/t/neatness-sign-godliness-or-compulsion/#.Wpd9hq2ZO9Y. 



Britt, Suzanne, Neat People vs. Sloppy People 

