Killer Crackdown

The serial killer has always captured the attention of American citizens.The USA has produced by far more serial killers than any other country in the world. Infamous Figures like Jack the Ripper and Ted Bundy will forever go down in history. The idea fascinated people that their neighbor might be a knife wielding maniac. Serial killers have been on a decline since their peak in the 1980’s. Figures like Serial murders are on the decline because of less media coverage, more killers  being caught and how killers are studied. 



	Serial Killers have not been paraded on the evening news as much as they used to be. In this day and age, media outlets are not giving the same publicity to killers  that they would have received decades ago. People nowadays would rather entertain themselves with fictional killers from TV shows like Criminal Minds and Dexter. The “ stereotypical” serial killer stories have been replaced stories of school shootings. These are the new mainstream murder stories that are being broadcasted nationally.



However Serial Murders have been studied so much that it is  much easier to catch killers. Classes on serial killers are even offered at numerous universities. According to research, the average serial killer is a white male in his mid 30s who kills for usually personal enjoyment or financial gain. Law enforcement agencies like the FBI have the ability to profile these killers down to their daily morning routine. This leads to most of the killers being caught after their first victim.



Likewise due to this technological age threats to society are easily flagged. People on the internet with sociopathic tendencies are reported and tracked by law enforcement. Most killers are caught by DNA evidence left behind. Many killers secretly aspire to be caught, and leave a signature behind for those trying to catch them. The signature is a calling card that is unique to every killer.This shows the ritualistic nature of these killers. With this information law enforcement can create a profile of what the killer looks like and the killer’s reoccurring tendencies.



In conclusion Serial killers use to be in the limelight but now they are yesterday’s news. We are tracking down and catching them faster than we ever have before. The majority of killers won’t reach three victims before they are either caught, killed or take their own life. This why you won’t see extremely high kill counts like you would have saw with killers of the past. 





































“Serial Killer Statistics and Demographics.” Statistic Brain, 23 Sept. 2017, .



Crockett, Zachary. “What Data on 3,000 Murderers and 10,000 Victims Tells Us about Serial Killers.” Vox, Vox, 2 Dec. 2016, .



Seth, Khushboo. “Countries That Have Produced the Most Serial Killers.” Worldatlas, 28 Feb. 2018, .



Freeman, Shanna. “How Serial Killers Work.” HowStuffWorks, HowStuffWorks, 2 Oct. 2007, people.howstuffworks.com/serial-killer6.htm.

