The Strength to Keep Pushing





Hardships are something we all encounter in our lifetime. Some are harder to deal with, while others, seem much easier. Personally, my family hasn’t always succeeded in the financial area, yet they still always try their best to provide for my siblings and I. In the year of 2015, my father lost his job, placing our family in a deeper financial crisis. Keep in mind that this is all going on right before the start of my junior year in high school. The school I was attending at that moment was a private Christian school, but it wasn’t in a place where I felt I was being challenged enough to use my full potential to prevail and to be prepared for a much more challenging education. As a result, I began my mission/journey to find a more intellectual and rigorous high school.

Mid July right before the start of another school year, one of my closest friends brought to my attention that there was a new school being built that offered a college preparatory learning. My eyes brightened as my mind began to think, “this is exactly what I was looking for to have a better foundation for college.” However, the tuition said otherwise. I talked to my father about the cost expressing my passion for attending this school. As I presented a convincing argument on why an investment in this school would help to prepare me for college, unfortunately, his voice responded with sorrow and regret telling me that we weren’t able to afford it. 

After multiple conversations with my father/parents trying to convince them to let me attend this school, I decided to work and to pay my way through high school. This was a huge decision/commitment for a 16 year old boy, who was used to his parents paying for almost everything. When I think back about this decision, I could not imagine how much little sleep I would get from going to school, then to work,  coming home and then doing homework until almost two in the morning. Without a doubt, if I had known that my schedule was going to be so demanding, I would have probably second guessed the idea. However, that wasn’t the case. From my core, my drive and determination ignited, and I pushed through to be successful at this high school, despite my circumstances.

Halfway through the school year, I encountered another barrier. My father didn’t agree with the idea of me staying up late every night to complete my homework. His actions towards me almost led to me quitting my job. I became worried and fearful because quitting would have a direct affect on me attending the school, but then I was blessed. The head of the school felt that I was such an active contributor to the school that she decided to give me a 95% discount off my tuition.  A reduction in tuition not only meant that I didn’t have to pay for tuition for the rest of that school year, but I would be able to continue attending the school and growing in my preparation for college and life ahead.  

Hardships are something we all encounter in our lifetime, whether it be later in life or earlier; they always seem to evolve. How we handle these hardships are critical because they can either build us up or break us down. These experiences enrich our mind, individuality, and teaches us lessons that we will never overlook. Personally, this hardship that I've shared is one that I feel has altered my life for the better. I now feel more equipped than before to take on challenges at a higher education level.              