Throughout the story of the Purple Hibiscus the main character Kambili Achike, a fifteen-year-old girl is an excellent student who is shy and inhibited, at least until she spent an extended amount of time away from her family home at the house of her Aunty Ifeoma and her family. Kambili is the younger of Papa Eugene and Mama Achike’s two children. She idolizes her father,Papa, even as she fears his violent punishments, and her worldview is based on his strict Catholic rules. While visiting Nsukka, she slowly starts to talk and open up more, and falls in love with the young priest, the teachings Father Amadi. She ultimately retains her Catholic faith, though, it is a more liberal one based on that of Father Amadi and herAunt Ifeoma. After staying with her Aunt Ifeoma and going through some horrendous events, she returns home and shows her family that she has matured by exhibiting up her courage, opening up more toward other people, and standing up to Papa.



Kambili shows tremendous courage by overcoming adversity when she stood up to her father. At the hands of her father she was a victim of physical abuse as a result of this Kambili was too frightened to speak out. The Achike family had to retain a nice appearance, so the truth would be so obvious to see. Even domestically Kambili could bring herself to hold Papa Eugene responsible for breaking the figures even though Kambili’s family saw him explode. An example of her unwise awareness that left her mute is when she said, ”I meant to say I am sorry that Papa broke your figurines, but the words that came out were, I’m sorry your figurines broke, Mama.” While visiting Nsukka Kambili was astonished by what she endured. Aunt Ifeoma persuaded Kambili to change her stance on Eugene, leading her to question the authority of Papa.



Kambili also shows that she has matured by being open to new thoughts and claiming her individuality. A part of Kambili maturing is creating her own identity and deciding which paths to follow good or bad. Kambili watches Papa-Nnukwu do his morning rituals because she realizes that he is a traditionalists and their faiths are no different. When she realizes their faith is no different, Kambili is strengthened and her devotion is exhibited. Kambili’s individual faith extends beyond one religion.



Finally, Kambili shows a great deal of maturity when she is able to create her identity as a sexual woman and more of a open-minded Catholic. Kambili realizes that her faith and her ancestors traditions do have to be mutually exclusive. Father Amadi is an encouraging person who helped Kambili change. His influence on her is shown when she says “ I had smiled, run, laughed.” three things she had never done before. Because Kambili saw Father Amadi as done of her only friends, she became less dependent on Papa Eugene and started to look up to Amadi.



	In conclusion, After staying with her Aunt Ifeoma and going through some horrendous events, she returns home, and shows that she has matured by building up her courage, opening up more toward other people, and standing up to Papa. She went through great personality change that helped her take a more positive moving forward in her life. She was only doing what she felt was right because her father told her to do so. This is because she looked up to Papa Eugene and loved him deeply. Visiting Nsukka was the most positive event that happened to her because it opened doors to a less abusive and more positive life.

