“Love by Knowing What It’s Not”	



What is love? What’s not love? What is an abusive partner? These are the questions people ask themselves when they are “in love”. “Love is patient.” “Love believes you.” “Love is a helium-based emotion.” “Love doesn’t use a fist”. “Love never calls you fat or lazy or ugly”. “Love doesn’t make you beg.” An abusive partner is controlling. They are manipulative. They might supply reasonable arguments as to why they should make important decisions for their partner. Abusive people never change. The spectrum of abuse includes verbal abuse, emotional abuse, and physical abuse.

In the passage taken from Burroughs writing, he provides a spectrum starting with verbal abuse. Verbal abuse can consist of “mean” words. The text states “fat, ugly, stupid, lazy” are all examples of verbal abuse. Verbal abuse can sometimes be disguised as jokes. For example, “why do you look like that in that dress”?... “Why you mad, it was a joke!” Verbal abuse also leads to silence. The text states that silence is used to sadden or frustrate the other partner. In other words, intentionally manipulating the emotions of another.

The chunk of writing taken from Burroughs writing provides a spectrum starting with verbal abuse leading up emotional abuse. As reported by Burroughs emotional abuse is an abusive person who does not always resort to using the verbal club, but rather the verbal untraceable poison. For example, an individual was ignoring and excluding their partner. That would emotional abuse. As a result, the order of the spectrum cannot change because they are linked together. The text also states that emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s own purpose. 

In the essay taken from Augusten Burroughs, the text by he provides a spectrum ending with physical abuse when it comes to being or falling in love. Physical abuse is just one of many cases of abuse. Being in love according to Burroughs does not consist of putting one’s significant other in harm’s way through physical touching. The text states “Love doesn’t use a fist”. Partners should never raise their hand at each other. Burroughs also says, “Love does not make you beg”. Couples should never force the person they love to beg for something. Also, being in a relationship where physical abuse is present, people may consider that person ant to the abusive partner. The text states that an abusive partner is manipulative and controlling. The text also says that an abusive partner will threaten their partner in any way possible.

In conclusion, Augusten Burroughs provides a spectrum that ranges from verbal abuse, emotional abuse, and physical abuse. Burroughs breaks down each one and gives a connection to each one. When in a relationship, it is recommended that both roles be equal in every way to avoid verbal abuse, emotional abuse, and physical abuse.





 









