 Is It Really Love?
Many people do not pay attention to the signs of someone’s abusive nature. They view it as “that is just the way they are” or “they are stuck in their ways” when in all actuality it is the red flags being thrown hinting of this person’s abusive capabilities. Abuse is defined as the mistreatment of an individual with cruelty or violence, regularly or repeatedly. Often times women think that abuse can only occur physically but this is not true. Abuse can range from physical, to sexual, and emotional abuse.

First, Physical abuse is one type of abuse. It is the intentional, unwanted striking of someone inflicting pain or trauma to them typically by kicking, punching, or slapping. Many survivors that have withstood physical abuse say that the abuse began with a simple push but eventually became more intensely violent as time carried on. According to a Huffington Post Cultural Article titled “30 Shocking Domestic Violence Statistics That Remind Us It’s an Epidemic” every year 4,774,00 women claim that they experienced physical violence by a partner aside from this, 38,028,000 women stated they have experienced physical violence at least once in their lifetime. Despite the large number some women still do not leave the relationship. The victims feel as if he/she will not find someone else to coincide with. This is usually the scare for women who are older, have kids with the person, or have been with the person for a long period of time. Time and time again, we see abuse victims returning to the abuser who caused them pain. It seems illogical but for the victims remaining in the relationship only hoping that the abuse will stop. The aggressor has so much of the upper hand in the situation that the victim is afraid to leave. Since the victim knows what the aggressor is capable of harming such as his/her family, he/she will not leave.

Secondly, Sexual abuse, it is another type of abuse that is defined as the act of giving unwanted sexual advances towards someone without their given consent. Many victims of sexual abuse are afraid to voice what happened to them in fear that no one will believe them. Especially if the person who violated them is someone of superior status or older than them. It is the fear of many victims that other people might not believe them or disregard what happened to them. Often the victim would rather not say anything because, it is viewed as a better option instead of the possibility of public humiliation and tarnishing of their name. According to the National Cleaninghouse, 55% of North Americans are victims of sexual abuse. 1 in 5 male children, and 1 in 3 female children will be sexually assaulted before they reach adulthood. Many victims place stress upon his/her own mental health by continuously denying that the sexual abuse ever happened.

 Typically in childhood sexual abuse situations, the child never tells anyone so he/she experiences life suppressing the thought of what happened. This tactic does not help either party because the victim is suffering with no justice and the abuser is living life being a nuisance and a danger to society. These lingering feelings usually interfere with an individual’s future sexual endeavors. Not wanting to be touched a certain way or placed in a certain situation that could give him/her flashbacks of what happened. Trust Issues and PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) are two disorders that are associated with someone who was abused. Once a person’s trust has been taken for granted by another he/she trusted so much. For example, an immediate family member assaulting him /her scars the victim for life. So, cohabitating with a person in he/she’s adulthood there will always be doubt in the back of their mind about the type of person they are dealing with.

Finally, Emotional abuse also referred to as psychological abuse is the act of a person exercising a specific behavior towards another that results in the victim experiencing chronic depression, anxiety, or long-term psychological trauma. Name-calling is the main act that contributes to emotional abuse. In a relationship, there will be arguments and disagreements, but disrespect such as name-calling is no excuse for emotional abuse. Stemming from this, the individual receiving the emotional mistreatment tends to have low self-esteem, are unsure of themselves, and the decisions he/she makes causes him/her to seek approval from the emotional abuser. Events such as this can be so testing on a person’s mental well-being, that it will force the person to fall into a level of depression that the victim will not know how to recover from without the assistance of a counseling specialist or prescribed medication.

 Often times individuals are known to have suicidal thoughts when battling with depression because he/she feels as if there is no other way out to relieve his/her pain. When going through this and having no one to talk to, taking your own life sounds like the best option.   According to nspcc.org.uk (National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children) 1 in 14 children have experienced emotional abuse by a parent or guardian. In society many people feel as if this type of emotional abuse on children happens because of a specific culture or race. Many young people endure emotional abuse throughout their childhood and parents mistake this for “tough love”, thinking it is helping in the upbringing of the child. Public humiliation is something that no one wants, but this is another key factor when writing about emotional abuse. If someone is in a relationship, is unfaithful, blatant about it, this falls under the same category. By not having sympathy for feelings of another person while cheating clearly shows that the aggressor does not care how that makes the victim feel.

 To clarify, emotional involvement with another person which causes that person to think that a relationship exists, and not showing him/her the same amount of attention that they show you is emotional abuse. Lack of attention from a specific person is what makes a person think and reflect upon him/herself. “Why don’t they pay attention to me? Is something wrong with me? If it’s not me, then who are they paying attention to?” All these questions are a few of the many that run through the minds of persons who have been emotionally mistreated. Another tactic that emotional abusers use is negating all of the victim’s ideas. Every time the victim has input on a topic, it is often considered not good enough or irrelevant. Feelings that may be important to the victim are none of the abuser’s concern, any idea that the victim shares is disregarded because the abuser simply does not care. Being looked past or not feeling like a priority to someone we care for is a feeling most of us do not enjoy. 

In conclusion, abuse are wrongful acts towards an individual in many different ways. There are several types of abuse such as physical, sexual, and emotional. As a result, Physical abuse is the act of violence towards someone through aggressive contact. Sexual abuse is inappropriately touching or fondling someone without them wanting it. Emotional abuse is the psychological manipulation and mistreat of someone through words or actions. Therefore, this is important for everyone to be cognizant of the different types of abuse because it can help a person protect him/herself and possibly could help that person leave the relationship when signs of abuse start to appear. 





						Work Cited

Vagianos, Alanna “30 Shocking Domestic Violence Statistics That Remind Us That It’s An Epidemic.” The Huffington Post, 23 October.2014, . Accessed 20 February. 2018.



Folk, Jim/ Folk, Marilyn. “Abuse Statistics- The Statistics on Abuse.” Anxiety Centre, 5 May. 2017, .



Radford, L et al (2011) “Child Abuse and Neglect in the UK today. London: NSPCC 



