The Media of Dating
	Media has wedged itself into the lives of many communities all over the world, so much that we have become dependent on it. Society has been listening, watching, and reading all forms of media to be able to become aware of what is happening around them. As time went on, media evolved to fulfill different needs for society, one of those being dating. Online dating is a fairly new concept that has skyrocketed in the past years. Dating websites have become part of a popular wave these past years. Alexa Lyons from Thrillist.com chimes in by stating this: 
What started as one, solitary site in 1996 quickly spawned a dating revolution, a trend that promptly transcended bulky desktops to millennial phone screens across the world. And it just keeps getting bigger. In 2013 more than 2,500 dating sites were available in the U.S., and roughly 1,000 others were popping up each year. The number continues to grow and because of it, you’re guaranteed to find at least one service you don’t hate. (Lyons)
Lyons explains that dating websites are becoming more popular are time goes on, adapting to the needs and wants of the consumers. For example; If a person wanted their partner to share the same religion, they’d most likely go to Christianmingle.com, or if they wanted to date a farmer, they’d go to Farmersonly.com, and so forth. 
	In their article, “Why Dating Apps Are Actually Great for Real Relationships,” the author, Alexa Lyons, goes on to list the positive aspects of online dating by highlighting possible outcomes. Lyons states as one of her reasons “5. You are most likely talking to a sincere person, not a catfish.” A “catfish” is slang for a person online that pretends to be someone they’re not. Lyons goes on to reference MTV’s show, Catfish, in the sense that their relationship won’t turn out like the relationships the show portrays. “If they’re really serious about taking you out, the chances of them lying about who they are become significantly smaller because -- as Seidman pointed out -- you can’t adequately start a relationship with a lie (Lyons).” Lyons, in this quote, states that those who participate and are serious about dating someone online, won’t lie about who they are as a person.
	I agree with Lyons’s argument on those who are serious about dating online, won’t lie about who they are. As she had stated before, you can’t build a serious relationship on a lie. However, what irks me is the title of the listed reasons. “You are most likely talking to a sincere person, not a catfish.” Lyons seems to neglect mentioning the elephant in the room. She talks about “catfishes” like no one should be worried about it, because it most likely won’t happen, or so she insinuates. However, what about those that do catfish others? Is that not important enough to go on to elaborate? The issue is not of online dating as a whole, rather the issue at hand is a subcategory of online dating; those who do “catfish” others. “Catfishes” are a dangerous part of the society of online dating because of the reason they’re named that slang term, they’re pretending to be someone they’re not. 
	 There are many types of catfishers who have different motivations. A catfisher’s agenda can be motivated by loneliness, boredom, financial gain, revenge, etc. The most popular way catfishers hook someone is by manipulating what they physically look like. This is where catfishes start their journey of “lies.” Most dating sites require a profile picture or avatar, which is a photo of themselves. A majority of those who catfish start by displaying pictures of a person who is more appealing to the audience they’re trying to attract. 
	When a “catfish” uses a photo of someone else instead of themselves, they most likely do it to enhance an alternate reality they have created. Alina Ferrell from The Compass writes about different motivations people have to catfish others, she elebortates as one of the reasons: an alternate reality,
 The act of catfishing allows someone to digitally live the life of their dreams, and garner the attention that comes with it. It’s as if they become the protagonist in their own beautiful narrative where they can then play any role they choose. As such, catfish often paint themselves into compelling stories ranging from quiet success, to enviable glamour, to heart-wrenching tragedy. All options engender the catfish to their audience. The romanticized stories of their lives can attract victims longing to be a part of a fascinating, if mysterious, story of their own (Ferrell).
Ferrell shares that the reason people go online, and pretend to be someone they’re not, is because they have created a fantasy world where they can be who they want. I agree with Ferrell on this argument she has presented because many of those who catfish others are motivated by the unhappiness their actual lives are. Those who use fake profile pictures could be insecure of what they look like and actually are, that they become someone else physically and create a new life to live virtually. What these catfishers seem to disregard is the lives they actually affect because of their actions. For example, Metro UK wrote an article about a male model who was a victim of catfishers; they used his photos to lure victims in their scam. The male model, Matt Peacock, says that his family was negatively impacted by these catfishers. His wife was notified by others that he was talking to other women, when in fact it was others posing as him. Toby Meyjes from Metro UK, who had interviewed Matt Peacock, says that one event motivated Peacock to do something about the problem. Meyjes reads, “He said he vowed to do something after a victim told him she was having suicidal thoughts.” Those who want to create this form of an alternate reality don’t usually realize that actual people are affected by their actions. 
	There are those catfishers who neglect to think about others’ feelings, except their own, and unintentionally hurt users, however, there are also catfishers whose whole agenda is for revenge. Alina Ferrell also comments on this motivation for catfishing by stating,
When exacting revenge, a cruel catfisher can use information they already know about their victim, and parlay this into playing on their affections. The victim may be surprised that an online stranger can have the same taste in music, quote all their favorite movies, and deftly carry on fascinating conversations. This can bolster a sense that the relationship (whatever form it may take) is important or “meant to be,” making it all the more painful for them to realize it was all a carefully-constructed facade. (Ferrell)
Ferrell says that way these catfishers play out their plan is by using the previous information they know about the victim and using that to get closer to them so that they can create a strong relationship and the catfisher can take it away and break the victim's heart. An example of this form of motivation for catfishing is from the hit MTV show, Catfish. A women named Carmen reached out to the producers of the TV to investigate her cousin’s, Antwane, boyfriend who had broke up with her. Antwane and his boyfriend had been dating online for 3 years but hd never gone on a date. Throughout the episode, the producers struggle to come to a conclusion and find out who Tony, the boyfriend, really was. In the end, it was revealed that Carmen created Tony and manipulated her cousin. Why? Because he had insulted her weight when they were younger and she wanted to hurt him like he had hurt her. This is an issue because the reason for these catfishers to seek revenge is to hurt others emotionally and mentally.
	Like I had stated before, each catfisher has their own way of manipulating those on the internet. Some do it to see revenge, for money, or to escape their own reality. Though they each have a different motivation, it always has the same outcome; victims are hurt by the lies. It is true to say that those who are serious about a relationship won’t lie about who they are. But, the elephant large in the room. There will be people who will lie about who they are. Though catfishers are all different, and some don’t intend to hurt others, they do exist. 
Catfishing is a flaw in media that should have more attention drawn to it considering how common catfishing is. Mike, an author from XNSPY, shares a statistical analysis from real life stories that aired on MTV’s show, Catfish. 73% of people use another person's photo and claims it is them. 25% of people fake their occupation. 69% of people change their name. Given these statistics, and highlighting that the numbers are high, it is evident that catfishing is a large issue in online dating that will continue to be a problem until laws are formed against it. As of now, someone can make a fake profile and emotional distress someone while robbing their money because of a lie, isn’t that criminal enough?




















Sources
Ferrell, Alina. “Why Do People Catfish?” The Compass. https://www.spokeo.com/compass/why-do-people-catfish/ 
Lyons, Alexa. “Why Dating Apps Are Actually Great For Real Relationships”. Thrillist.com. https://www.thrillist.com/sex-dating/nation/why-dating-apps-are-great-for-real-relationships 
Meyjes, Toby. “Model discovers identity was used in 43 fake profiles to catfish women.” Metro UK. http://metro.co.uk/2017/07/18/model-discovers-identity-was-used-in-43-fake-profiles-to-catfish-women-6787800/ 
N.A, Mike. “Infographic: Catfishing – Interesting Facts & Statistics” XNSPY. https://xnspy.com/blog/catfishing-interesting-facts-statistics.html