
Mascots    Mascots are a big contribution to sports all across the globe, men and women sports from fun to boring sports; All mascots are not animals nor do they have to be but something has to represent them or group in a good way. A mascot resembles a team or group in a way of how it looks or acts. A dog id a good resemblance of me and the way I treated high school football with bravery, a vicious attitude, and with loyalty.  

      A Dog is very brave, doing somethings not even a human would do like going into a fire to save their owners life or even stopping women from being robbed. I’m not saying I did any of that, how could I possibly do that on a football field. Something I did do multiple times is risk my body recovering a fumble knowing that there was going to be a big pile on top of me. That has to be top 5 worst feelings in football today other than an injury, imagine more than about 8 people on top of you for a football not being able to move, being really hot and not being able to breathe all at once. That has to be brave knowing the risk of that and feeling like your about to die. In addition to that I had to go in for a new position the day before a game learning what gaps to go through and what calls to react to and everything.  The day of the game I was nervous out of my mind and scared I was going mess up; this game was homecoming which made things even worse because the whole school plus more was going to be there but overall I did pretty good with the 5 tackles I had.

    Being vicious is one of the familiar traits of a dog like Pitbulls, Rottweilers, and Boxers. They all do not care and will hurt someone they’re not familiar with or immune to and that was kind of how I treated the opposing teams we faced because you just couldn’t treat them any different. I played only defense and special teams so when it came to it I would do anything to get the ball lose or take someone down no matter how bad it felt to them or hurt them either leaving their head ringing, arm hurting or limping. Not to mention making big hits was my thing, sometimes I would risk my body and my head leading with it just to make a big hit knowing I had to stop but I just didn’t know any other way to make a big hit. I got a joy out of it just like most hitters would. 

    

    Loyalty is big trait in dogs, you will never see a dog leave their owners and they will always be around them. I never left my team or quit on them under any circumstance no matter what happened. Leaving my team was never a thought in my mind no matter how bad we were or the people we had, we were like a family and they were my brothers and you can’t leave your brothers. Like a dog would see everybody but its owner and familiar faces as an enemy I would see the opposing team as the enemy even if I had friends on that team it was no friends during the game maybe before and after but not during. That’s how everybody felt on my team so that’s how we clicked.





    

          

     Mascots are an essential part of having a team, they add attraction for fans other than the players so it is crucial to have one or else the team would be tedious. Mascots add intensity to games, adds support and help players perform better. A mascot resembles a team or group in a way of how it looks or acts. A dog id a good resemblance of me and the way I treated high school football with bravery, a vicious attitude, and with loyalty.  Dogs are key part to mascots because teams and people are actually going up to what their mascots represent.





  