Neat People v Sloppy People



	To be neat or to be sloppy. Often times, we may see people who are “sloppy” or unorthodox or are often quick to judge them. Thoughts that run through our head may be that they “don’t care about themselves” or how is it possible that they can be that sloppy? Neat people are the people that we usually don’t have a problem with. Neat people are seen as the epitome of human self care and awareness, and our subconscious mind usually already categorizes neat people as “ideals”. There are minimalistic people, and there are also people who just lives life as it goes. Neatness and sloppiness shows how much people care about themselves to a strong degree, but not fully. Sloppy people can be more organized that the neatest people in many situations, while sloppy people may not the most organized or “head-high”, and may show much more human regard than we may think.

	Neat people are sometimes seen as “too high” of themselves, and are often the envy of many people. We all have wondered how some people can become so neat to the point where it is almost ridiculous. My aunt is one of the cleanest people I have ever met. She often vacuums her floors sometimes twice a day and constantly cleans and straightens things are the slightest chance she gets. Her bed never goes unmade, and it is insane to think of how much cleaning she actually does every single day. Is this showing little regard for people or things? 

	Sloppy people are the ones that we can almost always relate to at some point in our lives. Some people are sloppy seemingly permanently, while some are not. There has been instances of instability and clutter at some point in everyone’s life, so who are we to question why someone is sloppy or not? Sometimes I can be messy, but who can possibly be neat all of the time? We are not supreme beings of innate cleanliness. Sometimes sloppy is normal. I agree with the statement that sometimes these people are the ones who care too much, because it is very easy to become consumed by the junk of our lives. Sloppiness is something that happens to everyone.  `

	Neatness can be an offset of a person’s attempt to maintain a “perfect image” to people that they may feel is inferior. In many cases, these people talk and look down on people who cannot achieve their level of personal gratification. On the other end, we may look at these people in envy. In our own minds, it seems impossible that a person can become “that” neat. In most cases, what others may deem is sloppy is actually a form of one’s organization. For example, there is something on your desk in your bedroom that you need but you may ask a friend to get it. No matter how much you emphasize where the item actually is, they will still be lost in what they consider a mess. On the other end, you know exactly where the item is and can find it instantaneously. Sloppiness has its own benefits for everyone.

	Neatness or sloppiness all comes down to one’s personal preference. What we perceive others as may sway our own choice on whether we will be neat or sloppy. Sometimes, the sloppiest people you know may be the most caring and organized, while the neatest people might the most head high people on Earth. Regardless of this, this is can differentiate what type of person someone is going to be. Sloppiness cannot always be the worst thing, while neatness cant always be the best.

	

