Knowledge is Key

African American have been taking advantage of since the seventh century. Throughout the numerous improvements were made for African Americans such as being freed from slavery, having the right to vote, etc. But even as thing started to improve the Africa American was still being mistreated by being used on research and experiments they did not know about. Doctors and other medical associates used their power to manipulate African Americans in to consent which is inappropriate and unprofessional. Patients and medical subjects are affected by the inappropriate of informed consent socially, politically and economically. 

Education was a social example that help the doctor manipulate African Americans. Education for African Americans were into two groups such as Slavery and freed African Americans. For freed African Americans education was mostly direction by subject to private, not open, cash related reinforce. Free Blacks also obliged their own children's preparation inside the cutoff purposes of their advantages by working up private schools and paying instructive cost for them kids tuition. (Smolin, 2012) For African Americans under slavery were educated by their master by choose because during slavery educating African Americans were illegal. Another reason why slaves where educated was by a couple of schools were developed by religious clergymen from the North, especially New England. By teaching the slaves to read the bible some whites believed that they would be more obedient. Having uneducated African Americans help lead doctors to inappropriately using informed consent for research without the patients’ knowledge. In Rebecca Skloot’s book “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks”, the author explains that Henrietta complained to her doctor several times about how she believed that her cancer was spreading. But by Henrietta not being educated enough on her canner she believes” …no indication Henrietta questioned him; like most patients in the 1950s, she deferred to anything her doctors said.” (63) This reveals that Henrietta and other patients just agreed to what the doctor said without any conflict because they believe they doctor was doing everything in their best interest to cure or heal them from there diseases or cancer. But in actuality the doctor was using them as guinea pigs for their experiments and research. 

Giving away information without the consent of the patients is going against the patient confidentiality between the doctor and patient. The doctor is only allowed to go against this rule if an only if it’s a life threating case for the patients. Going against this rule is a politically going against the patients’ rights. In the book” The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” the author reveals “George told a few of his closet colleagues that he thought his lab might have grown the first immortal human cells…” (41)in which they ask to have some he replied and said “yes”.(41) In this situation George gave Henrietta cells to other doctors without her consent. Another example of when African Americans rights were violated is during the Tuskegee Syphilis experiment in Tuskegee, Alabama from 1932 to 1972. During this experiment six hundred African American male were involved in this experiment without their consent. Three hundred ninety-nine males actually had syphilis and the other two hundred one did not. All six hundred males were lied to by doctors who said” … Being treated for bad blood” (Gloffe, 2017) Also, during this experiment these African American man was being dehumanized and used as guinea pigs or test dummy for the doctors’ amusement. It is very unprofessional and inappropriate for doctors to lie to their patients especially on a diagnoses’. 

From being miss educated to having people right taking away by using them as guinea pigs which leads to doctor receiving all the benefits and success from the experiment. But leave the guineas pigs with nothing for their contribution and sacrifice toward the experiment. Did you know ninety-five million dollars are used for medical research? (NBCnews, 2005) Did you also know that within that ninety-five million are law suits being paid for misuse of anything with a research? But not everyone reserves money and benefits. For example, in the book “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” the authors reveals:

“The dividing line between Lacks Town and the rest of the Clover was stark. On one side of the two-lane road from down town, there were vast, well-manicured rolling hills, acres and acres of wide open property… and a white picket fence. Directly across the street stood a small one-room shack about seven feet wide and twelve feet long; it was made of unpainted wood, with large gaps between the wall boards where vines and weeds grew” (78). 

This reveals that Henrietta and her family did not reserve any benefits or money from doctors for using and taking Henrietta’s cells. This also describes the living condition of how Henrietta and her family lived which was in a poverty part of town. Another example of benefits that the Lacks did not receive was insurance because one of Henrietta’s son spoke “She's the most important person in the world and her family living in poverty. If our mother is so important to science, why can't we get health insurance?” this show that a benefit that the Lack would have had if Henrietta received her portion of her award toward the experiment because it was her cells who made the experiment a successful. 

	On the other hand, people believe that not telling the patients all the information help them within their research and helps with the results of the research. Also people believe that doctors doing all the inappropriate thing for a reason and for the better of the human race. For example, in the book “The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” tells us that Henrietta cells was used for the better of the human race. People put trust into doctors because people believe that since they want to school for over a decade to receive their degree why question them when they are the one with the degree.

 However, misinforming people of research is inappropriate and unprofessional. Misinforming someone is gambling with someone life. The people who life is on the line should have the right to know what is going on no matter the circumstances, no matter the race. “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.” (Declaration of Independences, 1776). Even the Declarations of Independence it said to be equal to all men and life in which means indicated that one life is as important then thousands. So mistreating or misinforming a patient for benefits without their knowledge goes against this right. 

In conclusion, my question to doctors is the research really worth taking someone’s life?  Everyone should have the right to know what is going on with their body no matter the circumstances. As said before the book” The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” is a perfect example of how the misuse or lack of knowledge of something can go a long way. If Henrietta would have known more would it have been a better outcome for her. We will never know.  Patients and medical subjects are affected by the inappropriate of informed consent socially, politically and economically

Work cited

Goffe, Leslie. “How the U.S. Government used Black people as guinea pigs”. Newsafricanmagazines.com. News and Analysis, 10 Jan. 2012. Web. Oct. 2012

Jefferson, Thomas, and Sam Fink. The Declaration of Independence. Scholastic Reference, 2002

Levine, Murray, and Adeline Levine. “Coming from Behind: A Historical Perspective on Black Education and Attainment.” Coming from Behind: A Historical Perspective on Black Education and Attainment, 2014

Pastorino, Ellen and Susann Doyle-Portillo. What is Psychology?: Foundations, Application, and Integration. Ed.3. Cengage Learning, 2018

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

Smolin, David. “The Tuskegee Syphilis experiment, social change, and the future of bioethics.” Faulker Law Review (2012): Academic Search complete. Web. 01 Mar. 2012

