

	Ever since one can remember, bats were a favorite animal. Everything from their interest by being in a group to having a mystique aura made them very intriguing. At seven years of age, while walking around the neighborhood with friends, bats were spotted. Every time we caught sight of them, we yelled to get their attention. Seeing the bats glide all across the sky in groups were more fascinating than watching the stars. As one grew older, he started to find numerous similarities between bats and himself. He was never the type of person to believe in reincarnation, but if there were such a thing, being a bat would seem like a likely choice. Bats symbolize spiritually because they are more lively at night, they enjoy being in groups with one another, and they have a mystique aura.

	Bats are usually seen more at night and this correlates with my view of a perfect style of living. As much as possible, one tries to organize his daily life by allowing plenty of time during the day to fulfill whatever needs to be done. This is because of his introverted tendencies. However, at night is when he likes to be seen by the public and spend time with other people. Of course, this is not easy, but this is the ideal lifestyle. When one does go out at night, he usually try to make sure he’s with other people.

	Bats always fly with others around them. This was very true when he used to watch them with his friend. He likes to think that they fly around together to have a sense of belonging. Similarly, whenever one goes out, he tries to incorporate as many people as possible with himself. He also tries to blend in with them by not dressing too flashy because of the comfort. 

	There is something about the way bats fly all together that give them a mysterious aura. When one was younger, he used to wonder why they preferred being present at night and if they were even dangerous. They are so dark and mysterious (and to some even scary) that it is very common to see them in commercials and ads around Halloween or at haunted houses. Going back to him being an introvert, he usually does not like telling people exactly what is on his mind all the time. Even some of his friends think that they do not know as much as they want to know about him because he is reticent. One relates to bats because of the mysterious aura shared.

There are not too many animals one feels symbolize himself quite like a bat. From its interest in the nighttime to blending in with the crowd to even being enigmatic, it is easy for himself to find a close connection to it. Most people choose to have animals as their mascots because a specific animal can symbolize them and/or community. According to a prose by Brian Doyle, “A Note on Mascot,” he states, “Beyond all the obvious reasons we choose animals as symbols for our sporting teams — their incredible energy and muscle, grace and strength, intelligence and verve, our ancient conviction of their power and magic …”  Humans like making animals mascots to showcase our numerous traits. One chooses to make his mascot a bat because of what it means to him spiritually.