Patient Exploitation: Do The Ends Justify The Means?

	Medicine has made so much progress over the centuries, and in no small part due to the contributions of medical research on patients. From the discovery of penicillin to modern day gynecology, medical research on patients has done so much to improve the longevity and quality of life for society. Despite these marvelous advancements, the research that has led to them hasn’t always been humane and have been done with little to no regard for the patients well being after. Most of the research involved the researchers and/or doctors not fully informing the subjects of what tests they were truly performing on them and to what purpose their samples were going to be used for, if at all. This deceitful history of abusing and lying to patients for medicinal gain have had negative impacts on patient-doctor relationships. In fact, the use of patients and medical subjects is inappropriate despite their benefits because patient exploitation creates distrust in medical professionals, lowers the quality of medical care, and minimizes the opportunity for medical research samples and advancements.



In Rebecca Skloot’s book, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, it is shown that after the doctors at Johns Hopkins took Henrietta’s cells after lying to her husband about why they were taking them, that the Lacks family grew a distrust and anger towards doctors. She described an instance when she first met Day and that he had gangrene in his feet. She states, “Gangrene was spreading from Day’s toes to his knee; his doctor said his toes needed amputating, but Day refused. He said he didn’t want doctors cutting on him like they did Henrietta.” (Skloot 163). From Sonny not getting his angioplasty done to Zakariyya’s hatred of Dr. Gey and other doctors after what happened to their mother, Henrietta’s sons and husband are great examples of what happens when informed consent is bypassed to greater advance medicine. When patients begin to wonder if their doctor has ulterior motives on why they are treating them and feel that they are not being totally informed on what is being done to them, it shows that treating patients humanely and being honest is ideal when using them as medical subjects.

A massive effect that distrust in medical professionals can cause is that a patient could find it hard to fully reveal their medical concerns and history. Without both, the doctor and other medical professionals cannot perform their job effectively nor efficiently. In Susan Dorr Goold’s  article Trust, Distrust and Trustworthiness, Susan explains, “Without trust, the process of informed consent for the most minor of interventions, even a prescribed antibiotic, would become as time-consuming as that needed for major surgery.”  A meta-analysis was done by a group of researchers, searching to see if there was a legitimate connection between patients’ trust and quality of care. Their studies showed there is a modest connection between the health of patients and trust in medical professionals. As the editor of  the article Trust in the health care professional and health outcome: A meta-analysis, Urs M. Nater describes, “From a clinical perspective, patients reported more beneficial health behaviors, fewer symptoms and higher quality of life and to be more satisfied with treatment when they had higher trust in their healthcare professional.” This proves that skepticism in patients creates obstacles between them and being properly treated for what ails them, lowering how effective they are treated by physicians.



	With a combination of distrust and a decrease in the quality of care, word would spread not to trust certain doctors, resulting in a drop in attendance in many physician offices and clinics. The Lackses, like many blacks during that time, grew up believing the tales about “Night Doctors”, doctors who would kidnap black people of the streets after dusk to perform unwanted experiments on them, which, in tandem with their mother’s experiences, prevented them from going to the hospital for surgeries that would assist in curing their diseases. Skloot described:

	“The Lackses aren’t the only ones who heard from a young age that Hopkins and other hospitals abducted black people. Since at least the 1800s, black oral history has been filled with tales of “night doctors” who kidnapped black people for research. And there were disturbing truths behind those stories.” (Skloot 165)

Bobbette Lacks would exemplify how these stories fueled fear in visiting doctors when she remarked, “Well what do you expect from Hopkins? I wouldn’t even go there to get my toenails cut.”  (Skloot 165). Without potential medical subjects checking into hospitals or physician offices, opportunities for collecting samples that could lead to grand advancements in medicine would diminish. Everyday citizens wouldn’t participate in any potential medical studies as well, even with a thorough explanation of what the research and experiment consist of if they couldn’t trust the researchers. The Tuskegee Syphilis study relied on civilians coming in under false pretenses of free healthcare, Chester Southam’s experiments were done to patients and prisoners who didn’t know the true nature of the tests being performed. If doctors continue or even begin to lie more frequently to patients, they will begin to create speculation on why the patients should even trust going to see them for treatment.



	Opponents of these views present several arguments. Some will argue that lying to or not fully informing patients is in actuality beneficial for patients. Daniel K Sokol, a professor at Keele University who teaches Professional Ethics, insists that this method is and should be acceptable to the doctoral community. “Some moral goods, such as the avoidance of severe physical or emotional suffering and the preservation of life or long-term autonomy,” Sokol asserts, “may over-ride the prima facie duty not to deceive.” He continues to argue that meticulously choosing when and what to lie about is all done to protect patient and or patient’s family from enduring further pain and it maintains the doctor’s image of being hospitable and empathetic intact.

	I would contest his statements with one simple question, “If I took something from you Mr. Sokol and didn’t tell you what it was really for, would you be incensed if you found out the true nature of my actions, no matter the benefits that come from me taking said item?” Many professors and researchers only contemplate the science behind their actions and rarely think about the efficacy of them. The Lackses, for instance, suffered emotional pain when they were deceived and scammed into allowing the doctors to Henrietta’s cells, so the notion that lying to patients will relieve or prevent any suffering is flawed. If anything, lying exacerbates the emotional pain one feels and traumatizes those who have been lied to, whether it be the patient or the patient’s loved ones. Zakariyya, Henrietta’s youngest son, demonstrates this notion the best. When speaking with Skloot for the first time about his mom, he snapped at her saying, “What he did was wrong! Dead wrong.” (Skloot 246), referring to Dr. George Gey. He continued with, “And you don’t lie and clone people behind their backs. That’s wrong—it’s one of the most violating parts of this whole thing.” (Skloot 246). Lying to patients for their “benefit” or for the “benefit” of others just doesn’t justify any means.

	As I have shown, using patients for medical research without informed consent generates dubiety towards healthcare professionals, downgrades the overall sense of health in patients and care quality, and promotes decreased attendance of patients, lessening the total of medical subject prospects. Proponents of abusing informed consent to benefit the medical research, or even worse yet the patient, ignore the fact that they are in actuality traumatizing the same people they “helping” and damaging their own credibility. Medical advancements are of course needed and society grateful forever discovery that has been made that improves our lives, but informed consent is necessary to keep from halting the progress being made.



















Works Cited

Birkhauher, Johanna, Jens Gaab, Joe Kossowsky, Sebastian Hasler, Peter Krummenacher, 			Christoph Werner, and Heike Gerger. "Trust in the Health Care Professional and Health 			Outcome: A Meta-analysis." US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of 			Health. Ed. Urs M. Nater. Birkhäuer Et Al, 7 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 May. 2018.

Coulter, Angela. "Patients' Views of the Good Doctor." US National Library of Medicine 				National Institutes of Health. BMJ, 28 Sept. 2002. Web. 23 Apr. 2018.

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. New York: Crown, 2010. Print.

Sokol, Daniel K. "Can Deceiving Patients Be Morally Acceptable?" US National Library of 			Medicine National Institutes of Health. BMJ Publishing Group, 12 May 2007. Web. 23 			Apr. 2018.