Sensational Killers



	In classrooms all over the nation, mass murders are discussed to bring recognition to those who lives were taken to early. On the other hand, some use these tragedies to show how inactive our government is telling us it can happen to anyone. Sensational crimes play substantial roles as social narratives and are constantly discussed because of mass murder’s modernization, the decrease of serial murders increasing society’s sensitivity to the subject, and media using its power to ignite fear into society.

	Mass murder has learned to use modernization to its advantage. Serial murder is vastly different now compared to the 1800s. Since the 1980s there has been a there has been a decline in serial murders into the 2000s. Of course, over time security has caused it for serial or mass murderers to execute their plans. On the other hand, there have been new forms of mass murders adapted to the new security and policies against terrorism. After time and time again we are shown how easy it is for students to bring assault rifles into school buildings and through security. Parkland, Florida recently became the area of such a horrendous act where the young student took the lives of 17 fellow students. The nation has also been shown it can make happy at city events such as the Boston marathon. It may be the modernization that keeps everyone alert but is the sudden wave of new forms of terrorism. 

	This decline in serial murderers has caused America to get comfy causing more fear when it happens somewhere once again. There is a mentality some people have called the” It won’t happen to me,” mentality. It is pretty much self-explanatory, but the mentality has them believe that it can’t happen to them or anyone they know. Not all possess this mentality, some may only have pieces of it. Some may think those are sick enough to go to elementary school and open fire on little kids, but on December 14, 2017, in Newtown, Connecticut at Sandy Hook Elementary someone committed such a terrible act. But this depends on the information society receives.

	Media uses its influence on everyone’s opinion to increase their fear of mass murders. They would use serial killers’ weird obsessions as a curtain to show the immorality in America. The would shed light on Jeffrey Dahmer’s habit of freezing his victims or placing them in his closet. Also, they talked about more of the deranged serial killers like Stephen Griffith who ate a few of his victims. The media also spread the fear because of their obsession with serial killers by spreading the stories of how there are 5,000 yearly. The FBI did not deny any of these stories but instead introduced the term,” serial killer.”

	As everyone moves forward as a nation, they learn to live with mass murder’s modernization, the decrease of serial murders increasing society’s sensitivity, and media abusing its power for fear by using the sensational crimes as social narratives and learning from them. These steps are how the country improves its security of moral fortitude.