The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks.

      The story starts in the 1950’s at Johns Hopkins hospital, considered one of the best in the country, and one that accepted Black people, but was very racist and really did not want to treat them.  This story is being told by Deborah Lacks (Henrietta Lacks daughter) and Rebecca Skloot, the writer, who wrote the story because of another racist crime against a Black person, Henrietta Lacks.  Ms. Lacks was a tobacco farmer who, went to the hospital for treatment of her cancer in 1951, and  the hospital, Johns Hopkins, took tissue “removed from a malignant tumor in her cervix without her permission or knowledge” (Oyiboke 2017). Ms. Skloot’s book brought attention to how Ms. Lacks was treated at the hospital during her illness and addressed three important issues that needed to change like first requiring permission from patients before just taking cell tissues,  that medical ethics be followed, and not only identify cures but give credit to the donor when a medical breakthrough is made.  

       When thinking of Henrietta Lacks, you automatically think of stolen, that being Ms. Lacks’ DNA by the hospital medical staff.  Johns Hopkins took patients cell tissues, because they were trying to start a living cell bank to do research for disease cures. The problem is they did not get permission first. Hospitals at the time were using Black people for guinea pigs at the time to find cures for diseases like VD, pox, polio, cancer, etc. Rebecca Skloot and Deborah Lack, whose mother eventually passed away from her illness, cervical cancer, got together to tell Henrietta’s story. Together they were able bring to every ones attention how Johns Hopkins hospital had taken this woman’s DNA without permission and how the hospitals can just take DNA and no one would never be the wiser.  The medical staff was removing the leftover mess from surgical procedures sending it out for research. The hospitals tend to think it is okay because it was removed tissue and it would be used for medical research. 

       What makes hospitals think it is okay to just take patients cell tissues, they know more than anyone else that cell tissues hold the key to a person’s life and their family’s lives too. Which proved to be the most disturbing was that they later use her children in their research, and made public their medical information as well as the personal information of Ms. Lacks, herself and her descendants. They were sequenced and posted on line….. all without the family knowing anything about it.  Ms. Lacks’ doctor, discovered in his laboratory that her tumor cells were actually dividing and growing so he sent samples around the world for further research.  After the autopsy had been done Dr. Gey had staff take more cells from her body, again without consulting her family. 

        Even though Henrietta’s DNA is said to have saved millions of lives with the cures developed for several diseases, her family lived in poverty and with no compensation from the research that included them in the discovery of the HeLa (named after the donor) genome. This unpleasant reality of how Blacks were/are used from time to time in medical experiments without permission, the history records would show, the Tuskegee syphilis study, that exposed Black men in 1932 to syphilis and left it untreated until 1972 even though a treatment was discovered in 1940. Those Black men died painful deaths while scientist watched them slowly die and could have helped them. 

       Even back in the 1950s, doctors believed that human cell tissue held the key to finding important cures for all the known diseases. Well it is also believed that blood and tissue that remain from any type of procedure is considered “leftover” and free to take for medical research since it would just be disposed of. Besides they can remove the gene that identifies identity, so then the hospitals no longer have to get permission to use a person’s DNA.  But it is yours until that time. Why don’t they need permission just to scoop it up initially, before the identity gene is removed? This Is because permission is given when the patient authorizes the medical procedure to be done so they get to keep the “leftovers”.  According to Rebecca Skloot, Bioethicists see nothing wrong with this process and feel that without the different DNA samples they received for research the major medical breakthroughs in the development of the different diseases would not be found. “And virtually all judgments on these issues have been made in favor of scientists and drug companies” (Oyiboke 2017). Yes, excellent research from illegal DNA use brought about cures for so many diseases that have saved millions of lives.

       And to add to that the ethics shown by doctors and researchers has been said to be disgusting. The fact that they would steal DNA rather than ask permission to gather the fluids and parts removed during surgery tells us that patients should ask for all of their parts and fluid to be returned to them after surgery like auto repairs.  Anthony Wrigley, the Senior Lecturer in Ethics at Keel University deals with research issues in applied ethics, his specialty is bioethics. He talks about ethics policies that are in place and explains how they are supposed to protect a person’s internal body from theft. He also claims that abuse can happen because researchers are more interested, in the research and the possibility of a medical break though, consciously or unconsciously, than they are over subjects involved in the research. And that could be because current “judgments on these issues have been made in favor of scientists and drug companies” (Oyiboke 2017), making scientist think the law might be on their side.

         And again, just because there was a medical break though with the illegal use of Ms. Henrietta Lacks’ DNA it was still a theft. Remember Ms. Lacks never gave permission for the doctors to gather up and cart her cell tissue off for research. Yes, excellent research from illegal DNA use brought about cures for so many diseases that saved millions of lives, polio vaccine, cloning, gene mapping, in vitro fertilization, an understanding of cancer and diabetes, and lots more very beneficial cures.   Research ethics committees have been created and are widely used to assess and review claims of misuse. They are supposed to make sure, and scrutinize with an open civil view and scrutinize again. That includes professional and other perspectives when making the decision as to whether the research is ethically acceptable. In many cases, this involves ensuring that many of the standard safeguards, such as proper consent or anonymization of genes are in place to protect the donor and their family while ensuring that the patients are not exposed to unnecessary risks. 

        Opponents of these views presented several arguments on the three topics based on Ms. Henrietta Lacks’ story, and congress have made proposals to change the policy to protect a person’s tissues and genetic materials from medical theft. It is named ”the Common Rule” and changes the way permission is collected and informs of how the genetic information would be used and how privacy would be protected, and rights. Though the gathering and use was illegal it led to a medical breakthrough that improved the quality of a lot of lives then and now. Never mind that without the illegally gathered DNA many people would have died. Information on this story seems to show that hospitals do not need permission to gather “leftovers” after a medical procedure because the donor gene is removed. Leftovers is a term the medical field use for everything, fluids, bone fragments, tissue, etc. that come out a person during surgery, their DNA. And jailers (government) also gather DNA on prisoners without their consent because they are considered property of the government even if they have just been arrested because it fuels their database for future crimes control and consider it legal. The argument, is this form of abuse wrong?  Most people think researchers are more interested in the research, and could care less about where or who the research material came from, as long as the identifying gene is removed, the only concern is the possibility of saving lives. The good of the medical breakthrough from Ms. Lacks’ cell tissue, is said to have helped a lot of people improving the quality of their lives. And as her daughter said it, “Truth be told, I cannot get mad at science, because it helps people live, and I'd be a mess without it” (Oyiboke 2017).  Fortunately there were no other disputes when it comes to saving peoples’ lives. I am happy to hear. 

      Ms. Skloot’s book on stolen DNA stirred up a lot of attention on stolen DNA, and there are a lot of different thoughts on whether “leftover” is considered stealing or not.  Some still think it is a matter of ethics within the medical field and that permission should still be gotten first, and donor recognition should be given. But whoever have the DNA in their possession has the information to that families lifeline and it should be safeguarded as that, important as life. 



References:



Oyiboke, Amen. “Henrietta Lacks' Cells Were Priceless, but Her Family Can't Afford a Hospital.” The Guardian, 25 Apr. 2017,    

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks. Worth Books, 2011. Rebecca Skloot ‘s The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks has placed her on the #1 best sellers list of the New York Times

Skloot, Rebecca. “Your  Cell. Their Research. Your  Permission?” The New York Times, 30 Dec. 2015, 

Wrigley, Anthony. “Human Experiments – the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.” The Conversation, 8 June 2018,  