Consent and Justice for All



	Is it appropriate to use African Americans in research without their consent? According to the research study “ Distrust, race, research” by the department of Social Medicine at University of North Carolina, “ several investigators have found that African Americans are more likely than Whites to believe that research findings will be used expose them to unnecessary risks.” Despite the benefits brought about, the use of African Americans as medical subjects without their consent is unethical, unfair, and unsafe. 

	The use of patients as medical subjects without their  appropriate consent is unethical. In various incidences, doctors neglected to get the appropriate consent from African Americans  in their research experiments. In the medical field, failure to comply to the informed consent guidelines when testing on patients is unethical. In the story “ The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” written by Rebecca Skloot, doctors used Henrietta Lacks, an African American woman, cancerous cells in their medical research without her consent. Doctors at John Hopkins would test on many African American patients without their consent. In the text it states how Wharton “shaved two dime-sized pieces of tissue from Henrietta's cervix”  while performing her surgery. The doctors failure to inform and get the proper consent from Henrietta that her cells were being used, was a major ethical issue. Another case of this was The Tuskegee Syphilis Study. Researchers used poor, uneducated African American men as test subjects. They injected the participants with the Syphilis disease without informing them of the risk  factors.  For instance, according to the article “ The Tuskegee Timeline” written by the CDC, “The study was conducted without the benefit of patients’ informed consent.” resulting in this study being another major ethical issue. Today, doctors who perform any procedures or treatments on a patient, must follow the informed consent guidelines. Informed consent is the process in which a patient grants a doctor permission to perform a procedure with the full knowledge of the risks and benefits. Therefore, failure to do so is considered a crime called “ medical malpractice”. 

	In addition to it being unethical to use patients as medical subjects without their consent, it is also unfair. Doctors would mainly use poor and uneducated as participants in their research experiments. According to the article “ Ugly past of U.S. human experiments uncovered” written by Mike Stobbe, “Many prominent researchers felt it was legitimate to experiment on people who did not have full rights in society.” Researchers had no regards of the dangers that these experiments caused and often time neglected to cure participants. This was a cruel and unfair attempt for researchers to use African Americans as guinea pigs in order to test diseases. Another example of this, was in the novel “ The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” written by Rebecca Skloot. In the novel, Skoolet stated that “ scientists believed that since patients were treated for free in the public wards, it was fair to use them as research subjects as a form of payment.” when in fact it was not fair. Certainly, these patients were poor and uneducated and did not deserve to be used as medical subjects without their appropriate consent. 

	The use of patients being used as medical subjects without their consent is also unsafe. In many cases, doctors would test diseases on African Americans without properly informing them of the dangers.. This was unsafe because many of these diseases resulted in people dying and having health issues. An example of this was the Tuskegee Syphilis Study. According to the article “ Tuskegee Experiment: The infamous Syphilis story” written by Elizabeth Nyx, “ researchers provided no effective care as the men died, went blind or insane or experienced other severe health problems due to their untreated syphilis.” These diseases were unsafe and researchers failed to inform and help African Americans. Another instance was this was in the novel “ The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” written by Rebecca Skloot . In the novel, Skloot stated that Henrietta was unaware that “ her treatments left her infertile” when she asked her doctor about having another child. These treatments were unsafe and her doctor neglected to get her consent, which led to her not being able to carry another child. Consequently, doctors failure to get the proper consent from participants involved in research experiments, led to many deaths and health issues. 

	Opponents of these views present several arguments. They claim that if it was not for these doctors testing on these patients, there would not have been a vaccine for polio in the case of Henrietta Lacks cells. Furthermore, they argue that the discovery of many health milestones, such as cloning, and the study of other cancers, would not have been possible if it were not for Henrietta Lacks cells. 

	However, these views may easily be refuted. While using  patients as medical subjects has led to medical breakthroughs in the medical field, it has caused tremendous devastation. Many African American lost their lives and lived with complications. In the case of Henrietta Lacks, her family was not aware of her cells and medical records being used. Therefore, it caused a more great deal of pain then it caused reward for using these patients as test subjects. 

	In conclusion, using African Americans as test subjects without their consent, was unethical in the medical field, unfair to the people, and unsafe for their health. People who claim that these experiments led to incredible medical breakthroughs, fail to realize the emotional damage that was a result. 

	


Works Cited

Corbie-Smith, G, et al. “Distrust, Race, and Research.” Archives of Internal Medicine., U.S. National Library of Medicine, 25 Nov. 2002, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12437405. 

Gordon, Taylor. “5 Unethical Medical Experiments That Used Black People As Guinea Pigs.” Atlanta Black Star, Atlanta Black Star, 2 Dec. 2014, atlantablackstar.com/2014/12/02/5-unethical-medical-experiments-that-used-black-people-as-guinea-pigs/4/. 

Nix, Elizabeth. “Tuskegee Experiment: The Infamous Syphilis Study.” History.com, A&E Television Networks, 16 May 2017, www.history.com/news/the-infamous-40-year-tuskegee-study. 

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010. 

Stobbe, Mike. “Ugly Past of U.S. Human Experiments Uncovered.” NBCNews.com, NBCUniversal News Group, 27 Feb. 2011, www.nbcnews.com/id/41811750/ns/health-health_care/t/ugly-past-us-human-experiments-uncovered/#.Wuqkf62ZN-U.

