Blood Loss
Serial killers fade in the larger societal narrative today because of the lack of public interest, difference in era, and the decline of serial killers. Serial killers are defined as a string of four or more homicides committed by one or more persons in an expanded period (days, weeks, months, or years). The incline of the serial killer started in the 1960s through the 1980s with a total of 338 murders. What helped increase the amount of serial killers was most likely the vast media attention at the time, the public had an infatuation with serial killers. The decline of serial killers started in the 1990s and the 2000s with just a total of 202 in this time span. The decline of serial killers had to do with the better law enforcement, incarceration first time killer at the beginning with their first crime. By stopping the string of murders that would soon following a murderer’s first victim, also by having an increase incarceration rate.  

 Another aid in the decline of serial killer is the lack of interest from the public. The concern of the public is a part of the fuel that drives a serial killer; the sense that everyone fears them it is a type of addiction. When famed serial killer such as Ted Bundy and John Wayne Gacy back in the 70s and 80s covered the front page of every newspaper and was on everyone’s TV screens. Back in those days there has been nothing like this before, it was new to everyone, these vile, sick, dark and twisted people now had a platform to show their color and their crimes to the world it was a scary but thrilling time. However, now we are in a time where bigger threats are among us, we moved out the era of serial killers and into the era and terrorist. As the age of serial killers were coming to an end in the 2000s, the world was changed for ever in the year 2001 (9/11) when to airplanes crashed into the twin towers in New York City. The public fears shifted to something bigger ended the drive of the serial killer. 

Understandably a difference of era is another reason of the faded larger societal narrative in serial killers. The incline of serial killer’s society was a different place, the technological advances we have today plays a role in the decline of serial killers. In the 70s and 80s people did not have the crime prevention technology we have today… a cell phone. Ted Bundy was a 70s based serial killer, we must remember telephones were still attached to land lines in people houses. Ted Bundy took his victims into the woods were no one would hear their screams and they could not call for help. So, with the lifesaving technology of cellphones have immensely helped the decline of serial killers and the impact of a different era. 

Finally, the fade of serial killers in a larger societal narrative is mainly due to the decline in serial killers themselves. As the public’s fears and priorities changes, so does the drive and ability for serial killers to commit murders. As police tactics enhance and upgrades in forensic technology, it becomes more difficult for a single person to commit a vast string of murders. The serial killer time has past even though there are still cases today of psychopathic people committing a string of homicidal murders. The public only give it a small mention and let it fade away like it never happened, because as human beings we handle one threat at a time. 

When a vast threat comes along we do what we can to solve, condemn, and prevent the threat from happening again. Only when we solve the problem (or we think we solved the problem), we put the whole thing in the back of our minds and let it fade in our memory. So, serial killers decline because we have let them fade in our memory and in society itself. Also, the steps we have taken to lower and prevent the risk of another incline of serial killers. 

In conclusion, serial killers fade in the larger societal narrative today are due to the nonexistent public and media interest. The era in which serial murders occur are compared to the greater threats of today. Finally, because new technology and updated police tactics vastly aid the decline of serial killers themselves. With these factors, the fade of serial killer’s interest in the larger societal narrative was bound to happen. As greater threats emerged such as terrorist, bombers, and mass shootings as of the 21st century the amount of serial killers becomes smaller. As these threats occur the world is look as a much bigger place and a serial killer’s threat becomes meaningless. 



      



  



