

True Love



Do you think abuse is only physical? Well it’s not, abuse can be verbal, emotional, mental, and more. Abuse can lead people into thinking that its love when it’s not. It’s a wide spectrum ranging from physical abuse and controlling. In “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not.” by Augusten Burroughs, he talks about the “delusions that can lead people mistaken cruelty for caring”. Abuse is a spectrum ranging from physical abuse to controlling by physically assaulting them, breaking someone’s confidence, and being manipulative. 

When getting Physically abuse on a daily basis, you begin to think your bruises, scars, and marks are usual. Well, they're not, getting hit, punched, slapped, kicked, strangled on, or withheld against your own will is not love. Burroughs says, “You can receive so many black eyes, you forget it’s abnormal to even have one”. Abuser are never sorry they say they will changed but don’t. When someone reaches their hand or arm up at you. You shouldn’t cover yourself or flinch the only way to get out is to get help.

Having confidence is everything you should always have faith in everything you do. When your partner breaks down your confidence, it can give you low self-esteem. Burroughs said, “Love does not maintain a list of your flaws and weakness.” Pointing out your partner's flaws is draining to them. Also, just not giving a compliment or any gesture on purpose can be emotional abuse. These can make your partner feel like there’s only one person in the relationship. Feeling like your talking to a brick wall when in need of a discussion.

A controlled relationship is unhealthy if you feel like you’re always being monitored or told what to do. Your partner is manipulative this is a form of abuse. A controlling partner will manipulate you into things you wouldn’t usually do. For example, isolating you from your family and friends. Reporting where you are at every time you move to a different location. Burroughs said, “An abusive partner is controlling. They are manipulative”. Always being criticized even if it’s a small gesture is a form of abuse. Your partner will start to take the criticism negatively. Turning the tables and making your partner feel guilty about usual shenanigans.

There’s a lot of different types of abuse out there ranging from physical, emotional, to control. This can occur by physically assaulting a person, breaking someone’s confidence, and being manipulative. Don’t be embarrassed to speak up that’s the best way to get help. You should never stay in an unhealthy situation where you feel any of these. You can always get help by talking to family, friends, or a coworker. You’re never alone somebody is going through the same thing. Using National Domestic Violence Hotline 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) can be your next step to get help. Your choice!