                                                (D) “Neat Vs Sloppy People”

            Sloppy people are more caring than neat people. The things sloppy people leave around have meaning, may be useful again later, or they are afraid to lose it. Neat people can’t relate to none of these things, so they always get rid of stuff or hide it away. Sloppy people will forever have bigger hearts than neat people.

            The things and items left around by sloppy people have meaning. For instance, let’s say a teacher’s desk is overfilled with gifts from their students. That teacher barely has room for their necessities such as a stapler, binder, etc. The teacher may find it hard to remove the items of their students, because it was a sign of the student’s appreciation. Also the teachers want to emulate the same appreciation to the students by decorating her desk with these gifts. The gifts are more than just items they represent the bond between teacher and student.

            Sloppy people are more caring than neat people because they know the things left around may be useful again later. For instance, a teacher might have a pile of old test assignment stacked on their desk. They have moved onto different assignments but may need the old ones to help grade or set guidelines for the new one. Another example is having items that aren’t used but saving the for a contingency plan. Let’s say a class does work all through lap tops textbook and assignments are handled online. But the caring teachers keeps an old spare text books and sheets of paper around in case of an emergency with the internet. This way the class shall go on strong!

            Sloppy people may have something laying around because they are afraid to lose it. A simple way of explaining this is using an athlete. They have all types of equipment and gear for training in multiple areas. They might pack they gym gear with them on the field gear, getting everything tangle up and dis organized. But they never know what they might want to work on during training. Their body might have multiple work outs a week and they can misplace stuff of they change their packing as much as they change their routine. They have to be prepared for anything better safe than sorry. That gear and workouts mean that much to them and their success.

             In conclusion Sloppy people who are caring, more so than neat people. They hold onto things that have meaning, might be useful again later, or that they are afraid to lose. A neat purpose just removes the items. Someone could argue that they do it to keep better track of them, but out of sight out of mind. Which mean the items neat people store away or remove can’t have meaning. Also it might not be as useful again later and they probably aren’t afraid to use it. Next time is considering removing an item they should ask themselves, “does it have meaning, will it be useful later, are they afraid to lose it?”.