Are you really in love

	Love is an emotion that some people believe brings comfort, happiness, and safety. But are these things really true for everyone? No, they are not true for everyone because “nearly twenty people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States.” (National Statistics, 2011). Over the past year one in seven women, and one and eighteen men have feared for their life due to a recent or passed relationship (National Statistic, 2011). Abuse can occur within a relationship. Abuse has many spectrums, but can be broken into three main categories: Physical, Emotional, and Mental.

	First, physical abuse is when someone intentional harms or injury another person and or animal. Physical abuse with in a relationship can be defined as the Cycle of Violence. The Cycle of Violence contains three phases: Honeymoon, Tension, and Explosion. The honeymoon phase is when they both are in love and it seem as nothing can break them apart. Until the second phase which is the tension phase, during this phase the victim feel like they are “walking on eggs shells” (Brisbane Domestic Violence Service, 2018) because the person feels as though if he or she does anything wrong their significant other will get mad. Lastly the explosion phase is when the significant other taking action in which can result in scaring, hurting, bruising, etc their partner. This cycle is an ongoing cycle which can and will continuously to go on until the cycle is broking or worse. 

Being in a physically abusive relationship can also be considered as domestic violence relationship; in other words, physically leaving marks on a significant other, internally. A domestic violence relationship affects the person lover during and after the relationship is over. It leaves permanent damage in the person life which causes anxiety. Anxiety is caused by panic attacks, extreme fear or worry. For example, since a person is in a domestic relationship, he/she will continue to worry and fear for when the next action will occur in the relationship. It also affects the person outside of the relationship as well, often the person will not allow other to touch them, are if touched, they will jump away in fear of being hit even if that was not the other person’s intention.

Next, emotional abuse is when someone is verbally assaulted. Emotional abuse in a relationship is when a partner says things such as “fat, ugly, stupid, lazy, etc” (The Bedford Reader). These are harmful words that are said to hurt the person’s feelings. This type of abuse can affect the person’s life as well. It can cause the person to become depressed and lower their self-esteem. Depression is a disorder caused by feelings of hopelessness, worthlessness. Low self-esteem is a part of depression because it causes the person to feel hopeless or worthless. What leads to them having low self-esteem is the person believing what is being said about them. For example, an individual who discourages and brings negative energy to a relationship can cause their partner to become sad and depressed.    

Then, there is Mental abuse which is when a person emotions start to affect their judgement, or thinking and feeling or moods in their everyday life. Within a relationship this abuse can change the partner way of thinking. It also can cause mental illnesses such as Borderline Personality Disorder, Dissociative Disorder, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, etc. (National Alliance on Mental Illness) These type of disorder all can be cause by a traumatic event that makes them feel stressed, fearful, low self-esteem, etc. For example, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder is cause by a traumatic event that has happened to someone; so if someone was to be in an abusive relationship the partner that is being abused can receive Posttraumatic stress disorder because during the relationship he or she will receive some traumatic memories. 

All three of these categories also pertains to children as well. If a child is physical, emotional, and mental abuse the child will contain similar disorder as said before. Children are more vulnerable to be abuse. Children are targeted more often because they can not defend themselves or do not know what is happening to them is or is not normal. For example, if a child is sexually assaulted by someone that is a form of physical abuse. It can also be emotional and mental because the action will continue to be a nightmare for the child being traumatized at such a young age.

In conclusion, if you do not know whether you are in an abusive relationship, please call the “National Domestic Violence Hotline.” They can provide a checklist that can determine if you are in an abusive relationship (The Bedford Reader). Also, the hotline can be beneficial to an individual in need of help by providing support until the situation is resolved. The hotline does not have an age limit, meaning it is open to people of all ages. Abuse has many spectrums, but can be broken into three main categories: Physical, Emotional, and Mental.




Work Cited 

Kennedy, X. J., et al. The Bedford Reader. 13th ed., Bedford/St.Martin's, 2017

“Mental Illness Condition.” NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness, 2018, www.nami.org/learn-more/mental-health-conditions.

“What Is the Cycle of Violence and Cycle of Abuse? |.” White Ribbon, www.whiteribbon.org.au/understand-domestic-violence/what-is-domestic-violence/cycle-of-violence/.



