Serial Killers in Society Today

 Over the years there has been a decline in serial killers in America, and there is evidence in statistics in decadal periods to prove this. The term serial killer was coined in the mid-1970s by Robert Ressler, the former director of the FBI’s Violent Criminal Apprehension Program which has now become a part of the behavioral science unit. The decadal decline of serial violent acts such as murder and assault in recent years have been attributed to a variety of things such as social norm changes as far as social acceptance of former minority groups, internet interface and social networks, and the overall decline in the fascination of serial killers and the term. 

Social norms changes and social acceptance of minority groups is one of the significant factors to lead to the decline of serial violent acts. One example of a shift in social acceptance is the acceptance of minority sexual orientation groups. This would include people having fewer problems with other people being open about their sexual preference. Another example of a social change is the acceptance of racial minority groups like African Americans, Hispanics, and Asians. This refers to acceptance not only behind closed doors but also in public. Finally, the norm of violence has changed. The aspect of violence has been deemed less acceptable to public and private institutions. The overall turnabout of offenders has declined due to upbringings and legal changes as well. Many societal changes have led to violent acts to occur less often.

The aspect of violent acts has not entirely halted in the least bit in the mentioned decades. This is shown through the internet and social media networks. For example, you can go online and see actual gore videos, yet serial killers are becoming extinct where in reality the aforementioned term serial killer is becoming extinct. The reason for this is some current day serial killers are titled different such as, school shooter, terrorist, police officer, and mentally disturbed.  On the internet, you can see the statistics of these violent parties committing these acts and how they are carried through social media. As the reason a person is titled a serial killer is because they would kill with a cooling off period and with a bias for their victim. The current day offenders are either creating fewer victims, have no cooling off period, or have no preference.  

The fascination of serial killers has also hit a stagnate point if not an actual decline in the all-time known use of the term. The reason for this is the media has mass control of public opinion and how these perpetrators are viewed in the public eye. The press has now condoled the caring for victims and not the murderer, as in the past they painted an image of infamy towards them and created a fan base as they tended to do in the climatic peak of serial killers in the 1980’s. The main reason that a fan base was even possible is that of how the justice system had correlated with the crimes committed and often added an expiration date for the convicted serial killers that didn't make plea insanity. The expiration date is the death penalty which is active in 31 states across the united states.

In conclusion, the term serial killer is used less in today’s modern society due to the implication of the term from past use over the years since it’s coining in the seventy's, but there is no real decrease in murderers or multiple kill killers. They have just been retitled to be adherent to today's society not to incite fear but to create a clearer picture of the violent threat at hand. They are now called their self-proclaimed media mocked titles to be able to just talk about the atrocities and trespasses they have committed during their moment long or years-long sprees that they have indulged in that disrupt social constructs.





Citation page



http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/crime/2011/01/blood_loss.html

URLhttp://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/crime/2011/01/blood_loss.html

Website TitleSlate Magazine

Article TitleThe decline of the serial killer.

Date PublishedJanuary 05, 2011

Date AccessedFebruary 17, 2018



URLhttps://people.howstuffworks.com/serial-killer.htm

Website TitleHowStuffWorks



Date PublishedOctober 02, 2007

Date AccessedFebruary 20, 2018

