The Power of Women

Prompt C: Compare how their roles of mother and wife similar? Compare and Contrast how are they different? How does race fit into this?

	Are you a woman? Are you a mother? Or if not neither, Don’t you have a mother or woman figure that you love? Women have been the backbone of their families since the early 1920’s. Woman have been considered as housewives since the 1920’s as well. Housewives are women who stay in the house while taking care of needs around the house such as chores and caring for their children. Women often have to make sacrifices for their families to help suit their husband and children needs. We see this happening in the film “MudBound” as both Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson sacrifices some of the same things but, yet different to meet their family needs/wants.

	Both Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson are alike in multiple ways. Both Laura and Florence are women. Both Laura and Florence are mothers. Like, Florence Laura is also married to a man they knew for a long time. Like, Laura Florence also has a significant other or loved one fighting in World War II. Both Laura and Florence have made sacrifices to support their families. Both of the women have done things that they didn’t want to do but had no choice. For example, Laura had to give up her home to move on a farm because her husband wanted to. While Florence has to work on a farm owned by the McAllan family to save for her own house.

	Laura McAllan was also different from Florence Jackson for several reasons.

Laura McAllan was a white woman. Laura McAllan was a woman who had the privilege to experience way more in her life than Laura. This being because Laura was white and white people had more power and freedom than any other race. Laura got to grow up and live in a beautiful house with her family. Laura remained a virgin until she was 31 years old. Laura was married but was soon torn between two men who were brothers. Laura also is a mother of 2 daughters.

	Florence Jackson was different from Laura McAllan in several ways. Unlike, Laura McAllan Florence was a black woman. Unlike Laura, Florence did not have the privilege to be pampered by her parents causing her to have to work even harder. Florence was married to a black man whom she loves and only loves. Florence had the skills of caregiving as she has been caring for individuals her whole life. As Laura didn’t know how to care for her children when sick and turned to Florence for help. Florence only had the education level of a 6th grader while Laura was smart and had a higher education.

	In conclusion, you can see how women have to sacrifice things within their daily lives to ensure that the needs/ wants of their families. We see this through both Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson who were two strong women in “MudBound.”  Women are more than housewives and more than servants. Women are loving people who will do anything to make the people around them happy.

	









