Draft: Abuse Spectrum

The movie Diary of a Mad Black Woman touched on serious domestic abuse issues. Inside the movie Diary of a Mad Black Women the main characters Charles McCarter and his wife Helen are about to have their 18th-wedding anniversary when Helen comes home to find her clothes packed up in a U-Haul van parked in the driveway and getting a divorce with Helen for a younger woman. After the heartbreak at the hands of Charles, Helen seeks revenge by destroying his furniture and clothes. However, the toxic relationship didn’t stop there. Helen later in the film tortures Charles when he is wheelchair bound. The emotional toll of the divorce and how Charles told her as well as the lies and gull to pull his hands on her was abuse. People tend to associate abuse with only the physical aspects, though abuse is a multifaceted spectrum broken into emotional departure in communication, physical harm on another person, and mental manipulation.

 When your partner emotional departs when communicating the spouse is left feeling alone in conflicts and unknowledgeable about their spouse. A lack of communication in a relationship can lead to negativity. Negativity can come when people don’t have the information or knowledge they feel they need, low productivity results. This is problematic in a relationship because it makes the spouse scared to speak in fear of being mocked for possibly not knowing what you’re talking about. The lack of conversation is harmful in conflicts between partners. When a spouse avoids conversation in a period where the two are in the mists of a conflict negative communication patterns can arise. Negative communication patterns, such as inconsistencies with tone or body language and different communication styles, can even lead to conflict escalation in some cases.

The most well know form of abuse is physical. Physical abuse is used when someone tries to control and dominate the other person in an intimate relationship. Domestic abuse is used to gain and maintain total control over you. An abuser doesn’t “play fair.” Abusers use fear, guilt, shame, and intimidation to wear you down and keep you under his or her thumb. Your abuser may also threaten you, hurt you, or hurt those around you. Abusers may use emotional abuse to demean and belittle abusers, making you feel that you can do nothing to stop the abuse, or even that you deserve the abuse. The action of demeaning someone’s self-esteem can lead them to thinking they are worthless and trapped in that relationship. 

Lastly, mental manipulation can be the biggest spectrum of abuse because the mind leads a person to ignore the signs of abuse. Mental abuse is a form of abuse, where a person is subjected to, or exposing, another person to behavior that may result in psychological trauma. Signs and symptoms may start small at first as the abuser to see what the other person will accept, but before long the mental abuse builds into something that can be frightening and threatening. Mental abuse can be a deliberate plan to weaken their spouse’s confidence and prey on their weaknesses for your advantage. A huge effect of mental manipulation is the mindset starts to be corrupted to normalize obvious warning signs of emotion, physical, and mental abuse.

The visualization of physical abuse being the only form of abuse that deserves media attention is false. The fallacy of abuse only being executed by men isn’t true. Abuse is a multifaceted spectrum broken into emotional departure in communication causing the spouse to feel alone in conflicts and afraid to speak up due to the lack of information about their spouse, physical harm on another person to seize control and dominance over their partner making their partner feel demoralized, and finally mental manipulation is used to control a person’s self-esteem and how a victim can process being abused and see it as a normal occurrence. 