Sensational Crime: Terrorism

  Terrorism has been defined as the lawful use of violence and intimidation, especially against civilians, in pursuit of political aims. The worlds’ terrorism related incidents spiked in America in 2001 and the worlds’ rates inclined drastically in 2016. This all comes from acts such as hijackings, school shootings, and bombings. This act drives the worst emotions out of people and has a huge impact on the area it happens in. The sensational crime terrorism is prominent because it causes people to become prejudice, frightened, and stressed.

Anyone can be a terrorist, and anyone can have an opinion of another person, which causes problems. Some people become prejudice of a race after seeing someone of that race commit an act of terrorism. To be prejudice is to have a preconceived opinion that is not based on reason or actual experience. This showed drastically in the 9/11 attacks that was caused by Islamic terrorist, many people started to discriminate Islamic people and people who looked as if they could be Islamic. That type of thought process can take a toll on some people.

Many people become frightened by the thought of terrorism, the act of it and the after effect. From videos, to the stories about terrorism its’ a frightening event to encounter. Its’ also frightening when you have been through it already and think it might happen again. An example of this is Kayla Bergeron, one of the survivors of the 9/11 attack, who stated “Not a day goes by that I don’t think about the people who died, the first responders and survivors.” She expressed what she felt 15 years after the attack, no matter how much time passes she still feels this won’t leave her. This feeling hanging over your head can be a burden to some.

Terrorism in and of itself is a stressful topic to even speak of. Many people who are put under the radar of prejudice people feel stress because they constantly must worry about what someone may or could do to harm them because of the color of their skin or their beliefs. Stress also comes into play when the actual crime is being committed because innocent people are being murdered and injured. And being someone to make it out alive from this is stressful because it stays on the back of your mind forever for some. This pressure can negatively impact people emotionally, physically, and mentally.

Terrorism is a sensational crime due to it causing people to become prejudice, frightened, and stressed. People become prejudice towards certain races they see committing terrorism. Others become frightened of what might happen to them due to the act. And some people are stressed out because they already have been affected. In closing, terrorism plays into a larger societal narrative by it being prominent in the world.













Citations

History.com Staff. “9/11 Attacks.” History.com, A&E Television Networks, 2010, .

“Twin Towers Survivors Share Stories in New 9/11 State Museum Exhibit.” Times Union, .



Kennedy, X. J., et al. The Bedford Reader. 13th ed., Bedford/St.Martin's, 2017.

