

Final Draft

Consent is Important

In 1951 doctors at Johns Hopkins Hospital took cells from Henrietta Lacks cancer cells without her knowledge. Henrietta Lacks was a mother and a wife, and she was also African American. Many doctors back had a big disregard for African American life back then, they were disposable. Taking her cells did help advance the medical field but it was still wrong. It is inappropriate to use patients and medical subjects despite the benefits because it is immoral, disrespectful, and harmful to the patient.

First consent is when a person gives another person permission for something to happen. Taking something out of a person or doing a procedure on a person without consent is immoral. In Henrietta's case, asking consent was not practiced until the late 1960s (Murray 109). A doctor at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland took a few of her cancer cells without her knowing. After Henrietta died, the doctors did not tell her family. Taking things without permission is immoral because it can put the family through a lot. Also, the family and or the patient may not want their information out there for the public to see. Although the doctors took Henrietta cells, the family did not know until the name of the patient in which HeLa was released.

Second taking things out of a person is disrespectful because the patient did not give permission.  Doing things without a person’s knowledge is going behind their back and doing it anyway.  When Henrietta died, doctors called her husband sunny, so that they could do an autopsy on Henrietta. Sunny said no at first but the doctors convinced him that it would help his children in the future. The doctors also told Sunny and his children that they were getting tested for cancer when they took blood samples, but they lied about that as well.  The doctors just wanted to see genetic markers to help separate Henrietta's cells from others. This was very disrespectful to Henrietta and her loved ones. Even though Henrietta died, her loved ones were being used as lab rats without their knowledge after they were assured that it would help but it did not help them. Sure, Henrietta's cells helped human's advancement in medicine, but that advancement barely helped her family at the time. At the time of her death, segregation was still going on. Segregation did not end until the civil rights act of 1964. That was about 13 years after Henrietta died. Her family and many other poor black Americans did not get help from Henrietta cells like many of their white counterparts.

Third, taking things without permission can be harmful for the patient.  It seems that doctors did not care for the patients' wellbeing and they only cared about making a cure for the betterment of society. In the book there is a conversation about what Johns Hopkins did to African Americans ““Back then they did things” sonny said “Especially to black folks. Johns Hopkins was known for experimenting on black folks. They'd snatch them off the streets”. (Skloot 189) This line is important because Johns Hopkins was built to help poor African Americans with healthcare. It was built in East Baltimore, a place where a lot of African Americans reside.  "In fact it was built for the benefit of Baltimore poor... he [ johns Hopkins] wrote a letter to twelve men he'd chosen as his board of trusties... in it he explained that the purpose of Hopkins Hospital was to help those who otherwise couldn’t get medical care". (Skloot 190-191) This was harmful to the patient and her family because Henrietta put her trust in the doctors not to do anything that could harm her family. In the end, the doctors harmed her family with the secrets and lies they told them. The Lacks knew nothing about Henrietta's cells being immortal and they surely were not the first to benefit from it. Her family still lived in poverty while the doctor that took and sold her cells were benefiting from the profit. The doctors never once thought of how this would negatively affect Henrietta's family.

People who were in support of taking Henrietta's cells may see that as nothing wrong because of how those cells  helped  to advance the medical world. In the Tuskegee experiments the government used hundreds of poor African Americans to get a better understanding of syphilis. Syphilis is a sexually transmitted bacterial disease that starts off painless but progress and can eventually hurt brains and many other important organs. These trials lasted from 1932 - 1972 in Alabama. The doctors told the men that they only had bad blood and gave them placeboes which were pills that did not influence their disease. The doctors did this because they wanted a better understanding on how the syphilis virus worked in living humans. The drug penicillin, which helps to cure syphilis, was made in 1942 (Center for disease control). The men that participated in the trial allowed doctors to see how syphilis worked and although the men were not aware, doctors gave them free medical exams, free food, and burial promises if they died. Henrietta and the men of the syphilis trials helped to advance what people and doctors know about medicine and cures.

Although people believed that it did help better the medical field, it was still wrong to the patients and their families. When the doctors let the syphilis, trials go on without the correct treatment even though it came out, it led to 19 children being born with syphilis, 40 spouses became infected, 100 of the participants passed away due to the complications that came with the disease. This trial led to a lingering distrust for people in the medical field by the African American community (Murray). The negatives outweigh the positives. Many families were torn apart because of the doctors doing things without consent. Although these experiments greatly helped the future, those who were affected then had no future because doctors withheld the cure and allowed the patients to go home with their families. These men had no idea that the disease was sexually transferred so the men infected their wives and the wives infected their children. Henrietta's family was told that they were being tested for cancer but, they just wanted something to help determined which cells belonged to Henrietta. The HeLa bomb was not an actual bomb, it was when scientists discovered that Henrietta's cells took over everything and contaminated everything. The scientist wanted family members blood to find G6PD-A which is mostly found exclusively in African Americans. (Skloot 175)

In conclusion, consent is very important. Without consent it can be rude, harmful and unethical to the patients and their families. Patients do not always want their information known all over the world. Also, Henrietta's family received none of the profits that doctors sold her cells for and they also did not get any information regarding their mother’s cells. Her family assumed that she was completely gone when they buried her in the ground, they had no idea that Henrietta was immortal until many years later. Consent is a way to make sure that doctors are not using you as an experiment and they are required to keep private information private. Consent was made to protect the patient, get educated on the rights that keep you safe.








Work cited

Skloot, Rebecca "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks"

Published February 2, 2010



Tuskegee Experiment on the History.com

Nix Elizabeth, May 16, 2017



The History of Informed Consent

 



CDC 




Annotated Bibliography




Skloot, Rebecca "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks"

Published February 2, 2010

This is a book about a woman named Henrietta Lacks, her family and her cells. Henrietta cells were cancerous, and doctors took them without her knowledge and they sold them after they realized that they could grow outside of the human body. The story also looks at her family and how they lived after the death of Henrietta. It also tells what scientist did with her cells and how they contributed from them.




Tuskegee Experiment on the History.com

Nix Elizabeth, May 16, 2017

This is an article about what happened during the Tuskegee studies. The article told who the syphilis affected and how many people it killed. It also provides the timeline and many other things. It also talked about a similar story related to syphilis in Guatemala, and how Barack Obama apologized to the victims the same way that Bill Clinton did. The article also highlighted that the last surviving member of the Tuskegee studies died in 2004.




The History of Informed Consent

Peter M. Murray 

This article outlines the history of informed consent. In this article it talks about the laws and the many different forms of consent. The information is from an orthopedic journal. The information is scholarly, and it is correctly cited.





CDC 

This information comes straight from the Center for Disease Control website. The website provides information on the timeline of the Tuskegee studies. It has information on when it started and why it ended. This article was very informative.







Antonia Johnson

Outline

Introduction

In 1951 doctors at Johns Hopkins Hospital took cells from Henrietta Lacks cancer cells without her knowledge. Henrietta Lacks was a mother and a wife, and she was also African American. Many doctors back had a big disregard for African American life back then, they were disposable. Taking her cells did help advance the medical field but it was still wrong. It is inappropriate to use patients and medical subjects despite the benefits because it is immoral, disrespectful, and harmful to the patient.



Immoral

Taking things out of a person without their knowledge is wrong

Henrietta did not know that the doctor took a sample of her cells

Disrespectful

Using patients as test subjects is rude

The doctors did not want to disclose everything to patients because they were afraid the patents would not let the doctors do anything.

Harmful

The way they treated Henrietta cells made for many harmful things being committed against her loved ones.

Consent was made to protect patients from doctors.



Conclusion

In conclusion, consent is very important. Without consent it can be rude, harmful and unethical to the patients and their families. Patients do not always want their information known all over the world. Also, Henrietta's family received none of the profits that doctors sold her cells for and they also did not get any information regarding their mother’s cells. Her family assumed that she was completely gone when they buried her in the ground, they had no idea that Henrietta was immortal until many years later. Consent is a way to make sure that doctors are not using you as an experiment and they are required to keep private information private. Consent was made to protect the patient, get educated on the rights that keep you safe.













