Abuse or Love?

	Abuse is far more than just physical abuse. To clarify, Augusten Burroughs provides a definition of abuse that more nuanced than physical harm in the essay “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not.”. He explains throughout his essay what love is by saying what it is not. In any relationship a man or woman can be physically abused, sexually abused, and mentally/verbally abused. Love can be expressed in many ways, but any form of abuse is not love. There is a spectrum for abuse where one end is physical abuse and another end is total control; three major types of abuse is expressed in physical abuse, sexual abuse, and mental/verbal abuse.

	A significant other, in any relationship, should never be exposed to physical or sexual abuse to their partner because that is not love. Physical abuse means any intentional act causing injury or trauma to another person by bodily contact. Sexual abuse means undesired sexual behavior by one person upon another. If someone says that they love you but continuously abuse you sexually or physically then that is not love. Getting back to the spectrum of abuse, physical and sexual abuse has its own placement on the spectrum. According to barleybe.com, “…abuse is growing in the United States rapidly.” Sometimes the victim might not recognize right away that they are being abused and they become delusional. 

	Mental/verbal abuse has its very own placement on the spectrum as well. Mental/verbal abuse is leaning more to the total control end of the spectrum because words a person might say can hurt someone more than anything. When it comes to dating or marriage, they learn things about you over time. They know your strengths and your weaknesses. When time comes when the abuser deicides to be abusive they can use your insecurities and weaknesses against you. Mentally your partner can destroy you has a person. You will not be the same person anymore. A significant other should never stoop low to get what they want from you. Moreover, make you feel like everything you do is wrong or your fault. In fact, Augusten Burroughs gives examples of what love is not. For example, “Love never calls you fat or ugly. Love does not ask or even want you to change.” Getting into someone’s head can be more can controlling at times.

	Love is not abusing, taking control of what you do, or stopping you from seeing your family and friends. A significant should never physically hurt you. For example, choking, hitting, or shoving you should not be tolerated. A loved one should not take control of your life or tell you how to do it. In a healthy relationship your partner should allow you to be yourself, to change for the better, and to do what you want to do in life. Love is patient, love believes in you, and most certainly love does not use a fist. Love is something so special and magical. Love is worth so much more. Love is an intense feeling of deep affection. Never settle for less.

	In conclusion, anyone can be in an abusive relationship, but if the victim does not recognize alone that they are being treated wrong then it is useless. They must know why it is wrong and the victim must know that they deserve more than that. Abuse has a long spectrum from physical abuse, to sexual abuse, to mental/verbal abuse, to total control. Any place on the spectrum is a very bad place to be in a relationship. You deserve better.  




Work Cited Page

Webpage

“Elder Abuse.” Physical Abuse Essay bartleyby.com. Web. 12 Dec. 2008

Work in an Anthology

Burroughs, Augusten. “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not.” The Bedford Reader.    

13th ed. Ed. John E. Sullivan. Boston-New York: Bedford/ St. Martin’s, 2017. 470-74. Print.