


Coming of Age

People are molded into whom they are destined to become by the substantial relationships in their life. According to the Center on the Developing Child at Harvard University, 

“Relationships are the “active ingredients” of the environment’s influence on healthy human development. They incorporate the qualities that best promote competence and well-being – individualized responsiveness, mutual action-and-interaction, and an emotional connection to another human being, be it a parent, peer, grandparent, aunt, uncle, neighbor, teacher, coach, or any other person who has an important impact on the child’s early development. Relationships engage children in the human community in ways that help them define who they are, what they can become, and how and why they are important to other people.” (The National Scientific Council on the Developing Child). 

For instance, in Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Kambili matures over the course of the novel as a result of her relationships and meaningful interactions with her Aunty Ifeoma, Father Amadi, and Jaja.

Aunty Ifeoma is a liberal, well-educated woman who is just as intelligent and assertive as Papa but follows a totally different lifestyle. Aunty is an outspoken and confident person she immediately interacts with Kambili as soon as she arrives, she hugs her and teases her. Ifeoma asks Papa for Kambili and Jaja to visit her and her children, this will result with Kambili experiencing some sort of freedom and also get to socialize with Aunty Ifeoma’s children and others. Aunty Ifeoma offers Kambili to watch TV as stay up as long as they want, Kambili is shocked with this offer because she has never experienced this type of freedom and herself and Jaja has to study in the evening. Ifeoma disregards that and says Papa won’t know if they don’t tell him. 

Kambili’s idea of a priest was not someone wearing only a t-shirt and jeans, she feels strange calling Father Amadi “Father”. As time goes on Kambili becomes more mesmerized by Father Amadi, at this point she experiences her first sexual feelings and first experience of independence. Father Amadi offers to take Kambili to the stadium, only the two of them. They both arrive at the stadium and Father suggests proving her love for Jesus by catching him, Kambili doesn’t but the purpose was to show Kambili the joy he finds in Christianity, it does not always have to be guilt and punishment but laugher and love. At this point Father Amadi is clearly flirting with Kambili and recognizes her feelings for him. He finally gets a smile out of Kambili asking about the lipstick stain she wiped off when Father Amadi was first arriving. After spending time on the soccer field this begins to break up her silence as her sexual feelings for Father Amadi grows and she emerges from her shell. “I no longer wonder if I have a right to love Father Amadi; I simply go ahead and love him”. Kambili and Father Amadi have an understanding the feelings they have for each other, normally Kambili won’t be able to express herself like this but she eventually does, this shows growth in her character development.

The type of relationship Kambili and Jaja had was almost like they were best friends more than brothers and sisters. Jaja opens up more quickly than Kambili and starts embracing the sense of freedom and impendence in Nsukka with Aunty Ifeoma. When talking to Father Amadi, she is happy Jaja is answering all of Father Amadi’s questions and remains silent. Kambili starts to notice Jaja’s speaks easily and doesn’t stutter or remain silent like she does. Jaja looks comfortable, alive, and a light in his eyes she has never seen before.

In this coming of age story Kambili goes from a shy introverted girl to a mature and confident girl as a result of her relationships and meaningful interactions with her Aunty Ifeoma, Father Amadi, and Jaja. This causes her to emerge from her shell and be more confident and social.





















Work Cited

Adichie, Chimamanda. Purple Hibiscus. Harper Collins. 2003. Print

National Scientific Council on the Developing Child. Young Children Develop in an Environment of Relationships. 2004. Print. Retrieved from http://www.developingchild.net





	

