The Inappropriate Handling Of Henrietta Lacks



Imagine if someone took samples of your DNA for research without your permission ? Well in the book “ The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks” doctors at John’s Hopkins took the cells of a woman named Henrietta Lacks for medical research without consent. John’s Hopkins was built in 1889 as a charity hospital for the sick and poor, filled with patients, most of them black and unable to pay their medical bills. During this time, since patients were treated for free doctors thought it was fair to use them as research projects as forms of payment. Personally, i think it’s inappropriate and i don’t agree with this kind of practice. Conducting medical research without the consent of Henrietta Lacks was inappropriate because it showed invasion of privacy, they received no compensation, and were showed indignity.

The fact that the lack of consent was an invasion of privacy is one of the biggest arguments made.  Doctors took several DNA samples from Henrietta Lacks, and her children for medical research without their knowledge. Putting yourself in the shoes of the Lacks family should help you understand their vulnerability. “That is private family information”, said Jeri Lacks-Whye, Lack’s granddaughter. “It shouldn’t have been published without our consent”. Publishing records and DNA samples to the public can be very costly, because once it’s out there’s no way to erase or forget it. According to Yaniv Erlich “ People don’t realize it’s impossible to hide genetic information once it’s out there”. (2) These quotes clearly shows a true violation of the Lacks family’s privacy and the excessive vulnerability they were faced with.

Furthermore, the research without consent was not only an invasion of privacy, but the family received no compensation. After the doctor’s research was done and it made millions of dollars in profit, they never thought to consider giving the family some of that money. After all it was their mother that they researched on and profited from. Imagine someone making money off you and then you reap no benefits from it. This is the feeling Henrietta Lack’s family has to deal with in regards to doctors. In the book it says “And though the cells had launched a multimillion-dollar industry that sells human biological materials, her family never saw any of the profits”. This quote shows that the family received no compensation from a million dollar industry jump started by their mother, Henrietta Lacks. Not only did the family not receive any of the profits, they continued to live in poverty after the fact. “Henrietta’s descendants of three generations remain mired in dire poverty, even struggling to access health insurance”(Ncayiyana, 2013). These quotes clearly show the lack of benefits received by the Lacks family.

In addition to them not receiving compensation, they also were showed indignity, in other words humiliation. The Lacks family was left in the dark for years before they knew about the secret medical research that had taken place on their mother and her cells. They were forced to hear about it from a public view, leaving them confused and embarrassed. Not only did they not know about the research with their mother, they were unaware of the research going on within themselves. For example, in the book it says “They truly had no idea what was going on...But doctors just took blood samples without explaining anything and left the family worrying” (Page.192). Text on the inside flap of Skloot’s book reads “ Henrietta’s family did not learn of her ‘immortality’ until more than 20 years after her death .” These quotes clearly show how left in the dark the Lacks family actually were. Think of how embarrassing that would be, to be left clueless for some many years without any knowledge of what’s going on. Also keep in mind,  that everyone else knows but you. The doctors that conducted this research could’ve saved the Lacks family the embarrassment if they would’ve just kept them in the loop of what was occurring.

	People opposing these views present several arguments. They make claims that it sparked a major breakthrough in science, therefore it was for the greater good. Their is also a view that the research made millions of dollars in profit. Furthermore they like to believe it protected millions of people. After my unbiased opinions, I have come to the realization that these claims presented can in fact be valid.

	However, these views may easily be refuted. Although the research conducted from Henrietta Lacks was paramount in a science and medical breakthrough, it was done without the proper consent of the patient nor the patient’s family. Although doctors thought the research without consent was a form of payment for the patients, it still made their efforts unethical. Though the research made millions in profit, it didn’t go to the worthy cause of the Lack’s family. Indeed the money was used to further the research for cures of diseases. Finally while one must admit that this research protected millions, you can’t deny the fact that the Lack’s family dignity wasn’t one to be protected.

	In conclusion,  conducting medical research without the consent of Henrietta Lack’s was inappropriate because it is an invasion of privacy, unethical, and showed indignity. Many have different opinions in regards to Henrietta Lack’s history. The arguments of “For the greater good” and the idea that it protected millions of people disregards the fact that it blatantly doesn’t consider the feelings of the Lack’s family. Indeed you can’t deny that it sparked a major breakthrough in science and medical history.































Works Cited



Keiger, Dale. “Immortal Cells, Enduring Issues”. Archive Media. Johns Hopkins Magazine, 2 June. 2013. Web. 24 Apr. 2018.



Ncayiyana, Daniel J. “The Extraordinary Story Of The Life After Death Of Henrietta Lacks”. Scielo. Scielo South Africa, Mar. 2011. Web. 26 Apr. 2018.



 3. Skloot, Rebecca. “The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks, The Sequel”. Fiserscience. The New York Times, 23 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Apr. 2018.



4. Vergano, Dan. “ NIH Makes Privacy Agreement With Henrietta Lacks’ Family”. Usatoday. USA Today, 7 Aug. 2013. Web. 24 Apr. 2018.