

Prompt A



In 1939 the second World War began; African Americans was able joined the United States armed forces, but still had to face racial discrimination. The military was still racially segregated. African Americans were not allowed to be on the front line or in the same units as white soldiers. In 1945 is when the second World War ends, and soldiers would return home. Even though, they defeated their enemy overseas their enemy home still awaits them. When soldiers returned home, the civil rights movement was happening. Black soldiers were denied housing and jobs. During this time Jim Crow Laws were adopted into the south. Stating that all facilities for black and whites were separate were separate but equal. Meaning, there was a colored and white only section. In the south blacks were tenant farmers who wanted to become sharecroppers. A tenant farmer is a person who farms rented land. While a share is a tenant farmer, who gives a part of each crop as rent. In “Mudbound” directed by Dee Rees, Hap Jackson owns a mule which made him a share tenant rather than a sharecropper. Hap is adamant about being a tenant farmer because he wants to prove his masculinity, dreamed of owning his land, and he doesn’t want his family to be owned.



	Men will do anything to prove that they are a leader to prove their masculinity. It puts men in a position where they feel in control. Hap was a share tenant until his mule dies and breaks his leg. It puts him as sharecropper instead of a share tenant farmer. Since the mule died and he broke his leg its harder for him to put outcrops. Hap’s wife Florence and their kids are on the field working double time, but that’s not enough. Hap must borrow Henry McAllan mule to get his work done. He goes on half shares until he can pay it off. Which, effects Hap masculinity because he supposes to be out on the field working but instead his wife is. He is so used to having his own and being in charged. Now he has somebody else resources. It pushes Hap five steps back from his dream. 

	Owning land was a big thing in the south. Most blacks had low-income wage jobs in the south. Leaving them not so wealthy everybody in the family had to work to keep a roof over their head. It was important for Hap to take care of his family and make sure they are okay. Hap dreamed of owning his land one day. He was tired of being controlled by whites. He knew that being a share tenant would be a step that helps him achieve his land. Florence takes a job as a nanny for the McAllan. Hap doesn’t want to be used as their tool they can pick up and set aside, but then she talks about how working for them is one step closer to saving up and getting their land.

 	 Slavery in America started in 1619, African slaves were brought over to the British colony; Jamestown, Virginia. They were used for hard labor on the plantations, picking cotton in the field from sun up to sun down. They were property, and in control of nothing, they were sold off to masters. Hap explains how his ancestors broke their backs and worked on this land their entire life and how their blood, sweat, and tears are in the soil but they’ll never own property. When McAllan comes along Hap doesn’t want his family to work for him. Since Henry owns the land, they work under him. Once, Hap’s mule died and broke his leg. Florence works for them relating back to slavery when the women would take care of their master’s children. It makes Hap feel less of a man because he never wanted his family to be owned, like his ancestors.  

    Renting a mule from Henry McAllan was the last thing Hap wanted to do. Leaving him as a sharecropper, instead of a share tenant. Hap wanted to be a share tenant; proving his masculinity, dreaming of own his land, and his family never being own is all he ever wanted. Hap had a lot of downfalls but in the end, it all worked out in his favors. He got his all-time dream and can support his family the way he wants to with just a little faith its possible.