Laura McAllen v. Florence Jackson 			

The characters Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson were similar in the sense that they were women with children who needed care, and they utilized the resources around them to do it to the best of their ability. They both were eventually forced to live different lifestyles than what they intended, and both of their husbands were farmers but were held to different standards due to society’s ways and what was acceptable or not. The similarities and differences between Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson as mothers/wives are background, social status, and race/gender.

	These characters backgrounds were very divergent. Growing up Laura McAllen was born into a privileged household. One that gave her the ability to get her teaching degree from West Tennessee State and earn A’s and B’s through her high school career. Besides this she knew how to sing and play the piano exceptionally well. Something that really no black person at this time knew how to do unless they were self-taught. In the film Florence’s childhood wasn’t visualized but it can be assumed she just as most of the blacks in this south didn’t have it easy growing up. Just as her husband Hap Jackson, she didn’t have any fancy credentials or college education behind her name. Aside from being a midwife before she started a family, all of what she knew was working a farm and growing a crop. Though Laura McAllen had a family of her own and kids to raise she didn’t withhold the motherly instinct it took to run a household like Florence did. She wasn’t raised in those conditions and knew nothing but the best of living until her husband Henry bought the farm that they eventually lived on due to his own mistakes. 

With this Laura and her husband Henry’s relationship was non-comparable to Florence and Hap’s relationship. Florence and Hap had a sense of respect and teamwork within their relationship that allowed them to get out of the hardships that they endured as the movie played out. During their roughest times, for example when Hap broke his leg and was no longer able to work the fields. Florence did what was for the greater good of her family and didn’t let what she was used to doing, get in the way of what she now had to do. Between Laura and Henry there was no partnership, no romance, no real love that was displayed. Laura had slim to no say in what went on in the household, she was expected to take care of the kids and the house. Leaving the rest for Henry to handle regarding their financial standing and the upkeeping of the farm.

	Laura and Florence were hold to very different standards within the community they lived in that taps into their social status. Because Laura was white she was held to a higher status than Florence, ignoring the fact that they lived on the same street in the same conditions she was just viewed as “better” only because of the color of her skin. The hardships that Florence had to endure such as raising a family in those conditions Laura was able to be relieved of some of the stress by hiring Florence for help raising her kids because it was too much for her handle. But for someone like Florence she wasn’t given the luxury of having help and by societies standards she was allowed to nor was she expected to. She was expected to be strong enough to juggle all these things on top of her own self-upkeeping, but for someone like Laura a since of pity was allowed and displayed in her situation because of what she was “used to”. In the area that Florence was raising her family in it was not usual for whites to live typically they owned the land and had blacks to work it for them. But in this instance the circumstances that Laura was forced into because of Henry’s deal that went bad on the house they initially had, they had to live on the land. Though they lived in the same establishment as the blacks they were expected to have more money simply because of the color of their skin. They were just as poor and broke as the black people that they were utilizing for their own economic gain. But like them Florence used Laura’s weakness of motherhood and the inability to raise her own kids to bring extra income to her household by accepting the job offer to “for extra help around the house”.

	And lastly, race/gender played a part in the film between Laura and Florence. Through the female conformity and male dominance that was displayed within each of their household mostly in Laura’s. Displayed many times in the film was the submissive nature that Laura had towards her husband Henry. She lived her life with him with by what he wanted to do or what pleased him best not taking into consideration what her own thoughts or beliefs were. Towards the beginning of the film she stated that “yielding to Henry and waiting for him to come home was what I felt was what I was put on earth to do.” Through that statement made it clear to me that she had no sense of self or and only lived to please him. But Florence showed that she had a mind of her own and had feelings towards certain things by her voice and she used it clear in the movie especially when she accepted the job from the McAllen’s without first speaking to Hap on how he felt about it. Something that women at this time would not have done without discussing it with their husband first. Though Florence was not submissive and did not conform to her husband so easily as Laura did. She did submiss herself to white people that she came in contact with, for example Pap. Henry’s father who made racist jokes as she cared for his sick grandchildren. By not responding she conformed to the way things were by not responding because she knew the outcome which was violence or death.

In conclusion characters Laura McAllen and Florence Jackson are two women who were put in situations that neither of them asked for. But made the best out of what they had for their children and sanity. Though they had a similar struggle they had differences stemming from their background, social status, and race. Gender also because though they both were in fact women they were completely different breeds because of how they were raised and what was instilled in them at a young age.



	

	