Medical Research With or Without Consent



	    Medical research without consent of the patient is unlawful and can cause mental and emotional damage to the patient and the patients family. The United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states that “no one shall be subjected without his free consent to medical or scientific experimentation(2-3).” Although in the case of the Lack family despite the benefits that have come from the research, medical research without consent is inappropriate and can be brought down to justice. Another example of medical research without consent is the Tuskegee syphilis experiment,  where researchers were studying the natural history of syphilis in African-American patients to develop better treatments. The men who were enrolled in this study were never fully informed of the purpose and details of the medical study, and they were never offered penicillin to treat their syphilis after it had become the clear drug of choice for treatment. Regardless of the benefits, medical research on patients without consent is inappropriate due to inequality, violations, and consent.

    Inequality is a major factor in why doctors believe they have the rights to do unlawful medical research. We can see that informed consent is critical for a few reasons. For one, it is instrumentally significant for ensuring the interests and strength of the individual patients and research subjects. Which is why doctors do medical research without consent, knowing that the patient will be spiteful of their wellbeing. Also the power balance between the doctors and the patients, doctors have too much power over patients. Doctors should get their salaries from patient outcomes rather than per service.

    Doctors who decide to do inappropriate research without consent are violating many laws because the consent of the patient was not given. Which can lead to judicial court hearings? “If a doctor does not get informed consent from a patient, and the patient is injured, the patient may have grounds to sue the doctor for medical malpractice.(H. Hathaway)” The ethical basis of informed consent is that you have the right to decide what to do with your body, and the only way to be able to make a fully informed decision is to be told the most likely, and sometimes the rare, benefits and negative consequences of a particular medical service or procedure. Doctors violate their patients regularly by not properly informing them what medicine they have been prescribed or even not telling you all the risks involved in the medical research.

    What does consent actually mean? Consent is granting permission for something to happen or agreement to do something. Consent also has to do with being knowledgeable about all the risks that can be taken place. Not having consent to practice research on patients can be law binding. For instance, The Privacy Act of 1996 states  “Health care providers must follow the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, a federal privacy law that sets a baseline of protection for certain individually identifiable health information”(G. Ferguson). 

    Although medical research without consent is inappropriate and unlawful instances such as the Henrietta Lacks can make our society better as a whole. The medical research done on Henrietta Lacks was amazing. The HeLa cells survived, thrived, and multiplied outside her body, so much so that they have been in continual use in labs around the world for 65 years, even though Lacks herself succumbed to cancer in 1951. The HeLa cell has continued to save millions of lives till this day, which can be an exception. There are several exceptions to the informed consent rule Emergencies, In a medical emergency, there is no time to describe the risks involved and a physician must act quickly to save a life. A patient cannot sue for lack of informed consent in this situation, even if he or she would not have allowed the treatment. Likewise, If a doctor knows that the patient is so distressed that he or she will refuse needed treatment, the doctor may not be required to get the patient's informed consent. For example, if a brain tumor is life-threatening, but removal entails frightening risks like paralysis, it may be appropriate for the doctor to be vague in her description of the risks.

     Medical research without consent can sometimes be ethical, but overall view as unethical. For numerous reasons, that are already mentioned, without the consent of the patient doctors can be held responsible for injuries or even deaths that can occur during medical research. “no one shall be subjected without his free consent to medical or scientific experimentation.”(2-3) Regardless of the fact of ethics, it states in the law that medical research HAS to be done with formal consent and if not the doctor can face judicial charges. 

    In Conclusion medical research has to be done with the proper consent of the patient. Regardless of the benefits, medical research on patients without consent is inappropriate due to inequality, violations, and consent. As the community works as a whole to contribute to medical research such as Henrietta the society will continue to move forward in a 

positive direction. 





Works Cited



Parker, M. “When Is Research on Patient Records without Consent Ethical?” Advances in Pediatrics., U.S. National Library of Medicine, July 2005, .

“Doctor Gets Jail Time for HIPAA Violation.” MPR, 23 May 2017, .

“Doctor Gets Jail Time for HIPAA Violation.” MPR, 23 May 2017, www.empr.com/features/hipaa-personal-patient-health-records-criminal-law/article/654196/.

