Neat People: Gods Among Us



	“Cleanliness is next to Godliness” is an precept that that is thrown around a great deal. With the understanding that Gods are seen as morally righteous, I can completely agree with that notion. But there are those who believe neat people are callous and cruel. In fact Suzanne Britt framed an entire passage around the idea. “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” persuades those who read it to believe are statements pretty well, but I see her statements as a fallacy. Neat people are actually morally superior to sloppy people because they care enough to stay organized, live in sanitary conditions and never procrastinate getting things done.

	Organization is the simplest way to be and stay clean. With proper organization skills, one can keep their surroundings and even mind uncluttered. Sloppy people lack such skills. For instance, Britt states “Sloppy people can’t bear to part with anything.” (Britt 222). This makes it sound like a compulsion, an addiction to staying disorganized. Most of society frowns upon those that don’t keep their things or even themselves in good order. In this way neat people prevail because organization is their bread and butter. Neat people are extremely proactive about keeping things arranged tidily.

	Organization has a bevy of benefits, including keeping your surroundings clean. When sloppy people are unorganized, it often leads to living in unhealthy conditions. For instance, I visited a friend’s house who wasn’t the cleanest and I found out he had a pest problem. A morally sane person doesn’t live like that. People don’t envision a God living like that. A neat person makes sure where they live is pristine. Morals lead a person to live in proper conduct, which includes sanitary living conditions.

	Britt claims sloppy people are only sloppy because of “their extreme moral rectitude” (Britt 221). To me that sounds like arrogance and laziness, which aren’t morally sound characteristics in my opinion. A symptom of laziness is procrastination. As stated before, a neat person is proactive about organization but that goes for also getting tasks done. Neat people will make the effort to get what they need done as soon as possible. Sloppy people will put things off until the last minute because they don’t feel like it. An ideal God gets things done and does it quickly, not when it’s best for them.

	All in all sloppy people are not horrible nor morally inept. But compared to neat people they aren’t as scrupulous. Britt believes neat people are callous just because they want things in an orderly fashion but it in fact seems that neatness shows you’re caring and responsible. If the adage is true about cleanliness then, neat people might just be a walking Pantheon.