	

Koala’s can range from a dark gray to a light gray fur. They are native to australia and it's closest living relative is the wombat.  Koala’s are not bears they are marsupials which means that the babies are born incomplete and they spend the first months in the mother’s pouch much like kangaroos. A time when an animal connected with me was a koala bear. We are  loyal, we are short when compared to others and we are  herbivores. 

	Koalas take care of their family and especially the young. Mother koalas have to carry the baby around and protect it from hard for a little more than a year. I help to take care of my younger sister.  For example I pick her up from school, take her to school, and I help her with her homework. Although  I do not carry her on my back I still protect her from harm and many other things. Koalas remind me about so many things that we have in common. Koalas protect their young in a pouch located on the mother's stomach. Koalas are born premature and they tend to spend most of their childhood in the pouch of the mom.

	Koala’s are very small animals when compared to many other mammals and especially their cousin the kangaroo.  Kangaroos and koalas are both animals that give birth to offspring that have to stay in their mother's pouch for most of their childhood or until they are too big to fit. I am short compared to many of my friends and family. I am about 5’2 inches tall. There is nothing wrong with being short in fact if koalas were bigger they would be really scary.

	Koalas do not eat meat. They get most of their meal from gum trees and other plants. Like koalas I also do not eat meat.  The diet that I have is not as healthy as the koalas. I mostly eat pasta and salad. Koalas sleep for about 20 hours a day while I would like to sleep for a long time I can not sleep past ten hours. Koalas only sleep that long because it takes a long time to digest their food and the best way to do that and conserve energy is to sleep for a really long time. There is only twenty four hours in a day so koalas are active for about 4 hours a day.

	In conclusion  it would seem that I do not have much in common with koalas, I really like them. We are both very quiet mammals. This animal connected to me on a spiritual level. If I were an animal I would be a koala because they have a nice quiet life. We both like to help our friends and family, we do not eat meat and we stay true to our loved ones. I understand the koala and its motives.