The Spirit of the Panther

Animals of all kinds means a lot to people spiritually. Their wild nature describes our personality in only ways that they can do best. We would get tribal tattoos, necklaces, pictures and more because of a deep connection we feel towards the animal. The essay “A Note on Mascots”,written by Brian Doyle, speak of how we use mascots to represent ourselves in ways we can not really explain. In the essay he exploits, “Maybe that’s what we miss the most...a tiny crucial jolt in the heart, connects us somehow to what we used to be with animals, which was thrilled and terrified,”( para 5).  These animals that we know would rip through us in the blink of an eye are what we delegate as a symbol to represent ourselves. From creatures that are prey to the creatures that are symbolized as king predators, we all have a specific animal that means a lot to us spiritually. When it come to a specific animal that represents me spiritually, it is the black panther because prior history; my childhood, and its similar traits.    

The black panther relates to myself and past history. This animal, black panther, is the symbol and name an organization that was start in the 1966 of October that started by arming African American citizens to protect themselves. In the essay “A Note on Mascots”, doyles makes a great point about that “ we love animals as images because they matter to us spiritually in ways we cannot hope to articulate,”(para 5).  This party of African Americans used a ferocious animal to represent how ferocious they can be.  As a matter of fact, In an article titled “Black Panthers” by the staff of history.com, the black panthers outlined their organizations views and political objectives in a “Ten Point Program”(6). One of the points this Ten Point Program had called for was an immediate end to police brutality. Even though they did not stop police brutality, they were one of the first people to give young men like me a voice against the brutality of police. Now to say they were saints would be a reach, but they are made an important impact to the my culture.

      Other than being an important to my history, my childhood was surrounded by the image of the black panther. If there was one animal that I saw the most my childhood it had to be the black panther. In the compassionate part of the essay, “A Note on Mascots”, Brian makes a good point saying, “The vast majority of us will never see a cougar or a wolverine, not to mention a boll weevil, but even wearing one on a shirt, or shouting the miracle of its name in a stadium,...gives us a tiny subtle crucial electric jolt in the heart,”(para 5). All honesty, I have never seen the cat in person, but I never felt closer to the black panther. In fact, when I was growing, I went to 8 different schools with 4 different mascots, so the school mascots never mattered to me at all because I knew when I went home the animal that represent me and my family was the black panther.In fact, if the images of panthers were not around in my house, home would have not felt like home.I moved to several different houses but the pictures of black panthers never changed. Also, my dad played an important role in my life, and he had a tattoo of a panther on his arm. I would come home sad or depressed, but my dad never showed any pain in front of me. I thought the panther gave him power, so I would sit and imagine having the tattoo as well to be just like my dad. I admired the animal with great pride. 

With all that said about how I was surrounded by the image of the black panther, you can see why I started to see similar traits between myself and the black panther. I mean I do not have to literally have hunt for my next meal, but when it comes to being accomplishers of  our goals we do not fail. In this essay “A Note on Mascots” written by Brian Doyle, he kind of catches the point when exploits the idea that “you can earn a degree in zoology”(1). Black panthers are known for their hunting skills of stealth. I see their skill of stealth similar describes me because I myself sit in the background and observe the situation with patience.  

As result, this animal will always stay as the animal that represents me because my culture, childhood, and characteristics is what makes me who I am today. Can you see yourself as a black panther? They are strong felines that rule the jungle with no question of competitors. They are the symbol for a group of african americans that were feared and respected for their political beliefs. They are also one of the most beautiful jaguars to see, and they are unique. I may never really see it, but I know it is the only animal I respect to represent me. 



































Work Cited

Doyle, Brian. “A Note on Mascot”. The Bedford Reader.

Staff of history.com.“Black Panther”. .



             



