The Misunderstandings Of Sloppy People



Do you consider yourself a sloppy or neat person ?  In the essay “Neat people vs. Sloppy people” author Suzanne Britt believes sloppy people are the best kinds of people. Although I don’t prefer titles, I’d consider myself as a sloppy person. Now I know when someone hears the words sloppy and person in the same sentence they automatically think of messy, and lazy. But that’s not always they case with sloppy people. Everyone knows sloppy people and neat people don’t get along too well because of the strong differences in morals and values. Most people would think being a neat person is the best option but really neat people are inferior to sloppy people because sloppy people are creative,open-minded, and meticulous. 

First of all, sloppy people have some of the most unique character traits, one being creative. Most sloppy people you know or encounter are ones that know how to think outside the box. For example, if a sloppy person had a huge pile of junk balled up in a corner, a neat person may see it as useless trash. However with the way sloppy people think they may see it as a form of art. The author talks highly of this in the text by saying “They give loving attention to every detail”. This is just one quote that illustrates the creative mindset that sloppy people have. 

Furthermore, another astounding trait that sloppy people have is that they’re very open-minded people. There are a lot of times where people like to label sloppy people as hoarders who never trash anything. This is simply because to sloppy individuals all things have a purpose. They can’t bear to part with anything. Speaking as a sloppy person, I know how hard it is to just trash any and everything because you never know when you’ll need it again or what you’ll need it for. For example, if you recently completed an essay and received a good grade on it; you’re going to keep it just in case you need it for the next essay you do. With that being said, you keep everything around as a form of security.

Most important, sloppy people are meticulous. They pay very close attention to detail, and do careful precise planning. Whether it’s from choosing from which trash-can to fill, or which books to keep hidden under their beds. Most people wouldn’t understand their way of doing things, especially neat people because they don’t take the time to do things they just react. The author mentions this in the text by saying “ Neat people don’t care about process”. This quote just goes to show how different neat and sloppy people really think.

In conclusion, author Suzanne Britt clearly points out the differences between sloppy people and neat people, leaning towards the sloppy people by defending their morals and values against the neat. Most people view sloppy people in a negative light because they’re messy or lazy. But they fail to realize their ‘messiness’ and ‘laziness’ is just a expression of their creativity making them some of the most unique individuals on our planet. Neat people are inferior to sloppy people because sloppy people are creative, open-minded, and meticulous. 