



	Relationships can turn abusive and dangerous fairly easily, and it is important to know what this may look like by knowing what love should not be.  In the essay “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” by Augusten Burroughs, many examples are given of what love should not be.  In order to be in a healthy relationship, it is important for there to be a mutual trust and respect between the two people in the relationship.  Many people in an abusive and toxic relationship may not immediately realize it.  Abuse in relationships is a spectrum that can range from physical abuse to controlling.  The three forms of abuse in relationships include physical, mental, and emotional.

	Physical abuse is the more obvious of the three forms of abuse.  This form of abuse can be visible, while mental and emotional abuse rarely have outward signs.  Physical abuse, such as choking, slapping, punching, and grabbing, are ways for an abusive partner to attempt to gain control.  In the essay, Burroughs talks about how love doesn’t use a fist (The Bedford Reader, 2017).  These forms of physical abuse often lead to injuries ranging from minor bruises to broken bones and sometimes even worse.  Many people who have been physically abused end up in doctors’ offices and sometimes even hospitals.  These people often try to make excuses for their injuries so people do not realize they have been abused.  This is an example of how physical abuse ties in to mental and emotional abuse. 

	Mental abuse is the form of abuse that nobody can see.  Mental abuse occurs when an abusive spouse gets in their partners’ head and makes them feel small.  Someone who has been mentally abused will not have bruises and scars from it, but will have negative thoughts about themselves.  The abusers may say things that make the other person feel like a lesser person, and will likely have lowered self-esteem as a result.  Though these small phrases will not leave scars externally, they damage a person’s psyche.  Mental abuse also often coincides with emotional abuse. 

	According to Augusten Burroughs, emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s own purpose (The Bedford Reader, 2017).  Emotional abuse may or may not be seen by others.  If someone observes closely, they may see the minor emotional changes in the abused person.  They may distance themselves from friends and family, have sudden outbursts, or they may just not act like themselves.  Emotional abuse may seem like the lesser of the forms of abuse, but people who suffer this form of abuse likely feel alone and defeated.  

	All three of these forms of abuse are on a spectrum.  They are intertwined and connected.  There likely is not one form without at least one of the others.  Many people push their emotions down and pretend nothing is wrong, but it is important to address the problem and get help.  Abusive relationships, no matter which form, are toxic and unhealthy.  In conclusion, there are three forms of abuse, and they all have adverse effects on the person being abused. 

	





Work Cited

Kennedy, X. J., et al. The Bedford reader. 13th ed., Bedford/St.Martins, 2017.