Without Their Consent: A Patient’s Perspective

        	Many people may think when entering a hospital, treatment will be provided to a patient depending on the situation at hand. The problem that patients overlook is the true intention of his or her doctor. Throughout history, there have been numerous situations where doctors or caretakers bend the rules for their own benefit. In doing so they are taking advantage of their patients without their consent, which is not humane. The use of patients and medical subjects is inappropriate despite the benefits because it causes doctors to misuse their power, obstruct justice, and treat patients like experiments.

        	Over the years, there have been many similar cases where a doctor did something to their patient without their consent--in which doctors are misusing their power. For example, a doctor’s main purpose is to diagnose and treat conditions. In “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” the physician diagnosed her with cervical cancer and told her she would be put through radiation treatments to save her. By contrast, Henrietta Lacks was not told that two of her cervical would be removed and tested on.  In the article written by Chelsea Conaboy entitled, Researchers Look to Conduct Research without Consent in Brain Injury Study” Conaboy stated, “Research without consent is controversial, and some ethicists argue that it is almost never appropriate.” (2)  What this quote means is that working on a patient without their consent is seen differently by most people however, others see that this issue is unprofessional. George Annas replied, “People don’t expect to be researched on when they go to an emergency department, and they don’t consent to research just by being in an accident” What this quote is stating is that patients do not expect to be used as medical subjects or guinea pigs when entering a hospital for better care. (Conaboy, 2)



					Medical Ethics

Doctors have a way of bending the law and manipulating their patients and getting away with telling them one thing and doing another. For instance, a doctor could remove a piece of a person’s body and decides to keep the piece after he or she has asked them to properly dispose of it. Mentioned in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, John Moore was in a situation where his doctor took advantage of him. Mr. Moore’s doctor (David Golde) kept the tissues that were removed from John and then tried to influence him into signing a contract to give him the right to test on his tissues. “When you leave tissues in a doctor’s office or a lab, you abandon them as waste, and anyone can take your garbage and sell it. Since Moore had abandoned his cells, they were no longer a product of his body, the ruling said.” (Skloot, 205) When John Moore tried to sue David Golde for testing on his cells without his consent, the court was on Golde’s side, and he won the trail and was only shamed for violating his patient’s belief. This case proves that even the law is on the doctor’s side and against the patients. 

			    Medical Responsibility 

Doctors have a tendency of treating their patients like an experiment. “They recruited hundreds of African-American men with syphilis, then watched them die slow, painful, and preventable deaths, even after they realized penicillin could cure them” (Skloot, 50) Doctors sat and watched while their patients of color died even when they could have helped them. Doctors are told that they do not have to tell a patient the real state of their situation if they feel it will cause less stress for their patients. While the patient does not know the truth of their condition, they are given false hope for their recovery. In many cases, doctors do not tell the patients family what truly happened to their loved one when they are in the hospital’s care. Henrietta Lacks suffered for months and due to her condition, her own family could not visit her. The doctor’s main concern were her cells that were doing good things for others and not her. Then upon her death her family still was not told the truth of how her cells were used. In the article written by Daniela Uslan, The controversial truth about Henrietta Lacks Uslan mentioned, “Unfortunately, these policies didn't help Lacks's children, who did not hear from doctors until 1973, over 20 years after HeLa cells were first harvested. The children were asked for blood samples in order to study their genetic makeup, but the researchers still did not ask for consent or clearly tell them how their mother's cells were being used. In fact, at the time, the kids thought they were being tested for cancer.” What this quote means is that even after HeLa’s death her children were not told the true reason their mother's cells were used.

Opponents of these views present several arguments, saying how a doctor’s main goal is helping their patients. In the eyes of a patient a doctor seems like a hero due to them being the only ones that know how to help with all medical situations. Doctors go law by the law and work very hard to achieve a high position in the medical field. Doctors tend to put themselves second and their job first. Doctor do not treat their patients like an experiment and only have good intentions in such not misusing power. Gaining their patient’s trust and being able to save lives is what pushes doctors to work hard and be the best they can be. 

				Medical Evidence

        	However, these views may easily be refuted with evidence showing how multiple docttheir power for their own good. Doctors can be seen as evil people who have a habit of wrongly diagnosing their patients. “Some mistook cervical infections for cancer and removed a woman’s entire reproductive tract when all she needed was antibiotics. Others mistook malignant changes for infection, sending women home with antibiotics only to have them return later, dying from metastasized cancer.” (Skloot,29) With many new diseases being found, doctors are trying to find cures. Doctors are known to have experimental trial and errors on patients. In the article written by Chelsea Conaboy titled, Researchers Look to Conduct Research without Consent in Brain Injury Study Conaboy wrote , “Because these trials are not common, it is unclear what enrolling patients without their consent could mean for researchers’ legal liability. The patients who would be enrolled in this trial are gravely injured, so researchers argue it is a reasonable risk to try a treatment for which there is some early evidence of success. However, even in studies performed with consent, researchers can remain liable for egregious errors.” This quote means that even in most cases doctors conduct these experiments without the consent of the patients being tested on. Putting not only themselves at risk but the life of their patients. 				

Conclusion

        	In the final analysis, its clear doctors misuse their power and take advantage of their patients for their own benefits. Doctors are supposed to follow the law, but they have a way of going against it when they believe what they are doing is right. For instance, when Henrietta Lacks’ physician used her removed cells for medical research without her consent because he believed her cells could save lives. The law does not see the wrong in what doctors are doing to their patients because they have the same mindset as one another. Doctors treat their patients like test subjects, when searching for results. Overall, doctors have been shown to misuse their power, obstruct justice, and treat patients like experiments.





References

Lecouturier, J., Rodgers, H., G., Rapley, T., Stobbart, L., Louw, S. J., . . . Ford. (2008, April 29). Clinical research without consent in adults in the emergency setting: A review of patient and public views. Retrieved from 

Levine, B. (2016, November 07). When Patients Can't Give Informed Consent to Be Research Subjects. Retrieved from 

R. (2013, June 08). Researchers look to conduct research without consent in brain injury study - The Boston Globe. Retrieved from 

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks. New York : Crown Publishers, 2010.

Uslan, D. (2017, October 30). The controversial truth about Henrietta Lacks. Retrieved from 

















http://www.grunge.com/93123/controversial-truth-henrietta-lacks/