
	Animals can represent people in certain situations. For example, somebody can compare themselves to a gorilla because of their strength. In Brian Doyle “A Note on Mascots”, he talks about why certain schools choose animals as a symbol for sports teams and the qualities of that mascot that are not being shown. After reading the essay, it became clear that people may feel like they represent certain animals at certain times. For example, a person may feel like an ant at the gym because of their work ethic, their constancy, and their capability.

	To start, ants work tirelessly to attain food. Whether it is finding crumbs outside or trying to kill certain insects for food, they do not ever quit. In the gym, people may feel the same. If you want to improve in the gym you try your best. You must push pass your limits. For instance, working out with a group helps motivates others in that group to push pass their limits. They work tirelessly and did the work out without stopping, even when they wanted to. Just like how the ant never stop until the job was done, neither did the group and everyone strived afterward. The reason why the group represent an ant is because ants keeps working even when they are tired. Instead of comparing the group to a gorilla who may rest from time to time, ants don’t rest and work day in and day out. There is another aspect that ants have that showed up that day; their consistency.

	When you see an ant, it is usually working towards something. They do it because they are consistence in what they do. Whether it is going after food, trying to dig tunnels or even protecting their queen, they never give up. The same can be said about the group in the gym. The group motivated each other to never drop the weight (or lower the weight), because if you lower the weight you’re not improving. So, the group push each other and sometimes others in the gym to go beyond their limits and to stay consistence in they do. Just like an ant, they can never just give in and stop, neither can we. The reason the group is being compared to an ant and not a more consistence animal like a beaver, is because ants work together on a larger scale than just a few beavers. Meaning, they help carry the load off one another and keep everything even. What is even more special about an ant that relates to that day is their capability. 

	Ants are capable of lifting 50 times their body weight. When ants can only weigh between 1 and 5 mg, it doesn’t seem special. Until, you realize they are smaller than your baby toe and if they are your size they could be living cars effortlessly. Ants never let their size stop them. In the gym, the group do not let size hinder their ability to move weight. The group will get their head right and help each move the designated weight. This way the group push beyond my limits and never let anybody’s size get the best of them. Again, the reason why the ants are not being compared to a strong animal like a rhino or gorilla is because of their size. Ants are small but more a tremendous amount of weight, which is a great quality to have. 

	Ants have this drive that allows them never to give in. Ants have amazing work ethics, amazing constancy, and amazing capabilities. When comparing the great capabilities, work ethic, and constancy of an ant to a work out group; one thing comes to mind. The amount of team work needed to help everyone achieve the set goal.  If anything, this quality ants possess is an honorable trait to observe in other beings since they always work towards their goals no matter the obstacles they may face. They will continue to put all their will into the path they choose to follow.






Reference 

Kennedy, X. J., Kennedy, D. M., Aaron, J. E., & Repetto, E. K. (2017). The Bedford reader. 

Boston: Bedford/St.Martins