My Animal Mascot 



         

         A animal I would pick to symbolize me is a tiger. Tigers have a relatively behavior on how I see myself. Tigers matter spiritually because they are unique, independent, and courageous. 



         I describe myself being unique just like a tiger. For instance, because I see us both being original and different from anything else. This makes everyone not look at us the same but think we are unique in our own way. For example, every tiger have different stripes and every human have different face features. Explains how distinctive myself and a tiger are when being describe.



         Being independent is also how I describe myself and a tiger. Tigers are known for being solitary because they fend for themselves. For example, tigers hunt on their own so they can eat. I see myself being independent because I don’t depend on others to get anything done for me. For instance, getting a job to make money and buy the things that I need. This shows how both characteristics are in comparison.

 

          I also see myself and tigers being courageous because of the way we react in difficult situations. For instance, facing our fear to succeed what we need done. This is how we show how brave we are by conquering are problems. Tigers are courageous because of them fighting to survive. It involves them to not be scared and go against wild animal to eat. I consider myself to be courageous because of what I overcome on my own. For example, speaking in front of a crowd or performing. We both in my perspective have a great way of showing our courage. 



          These characteristics of a tiger describes me which is why I compare myself to one. A tiger have great qualities to symbolize myself and be a mascot. In the article it said,“I think we love them as images because they matter to us spiritually in ways we cannot hope to articulate” (Doyle),which Is how I feel about tigers. 













Reference 







Doyle, Brian. “Go-o-o-o, Lemmings!” The American Scholar, 31 July 2012, theamericanscholar.org/go-o-o-o-lemmings/#.Wpe4oMaZMmI.



The Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica. “Tiger.” Encyclopædia Britannica, Encyclopædia Britannica, inc., 16 Feb. 2018, www.britannica.com/animal/tiger.