

Escape from Poverty, Is It Possible?

No one wants to be in a position of being extremely poor, especially if someone was born into the life. From novels like Mudbound and The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks the thought of living in poverty motivated various individuals to find ways to seek a better life for themselves and their families. There may not always be an opportunity for people to earn money fast, there is still a chance to escape poverty with enough patience and hard work and live the life you envisioned for yourself. Obstacles such as poor health care, racism, and lack of education should not hinder an individual form seeking their fortune, even if they were born in an environment that does not want them to succeed.

In the movie, Mudbound, directed by Dee Rees, the Jackson family are sharecroppers under the McAllen family and have been living on the same farm for years. Growing up in Mississippi, blacks did not have the same benefits or employment opportunities as the white people down south, especially with the war going on, so black families had no choice but to sharecrop and live off of the money their landowners gave them. Hap, the father, was determined to move his family away from Mississippi, doing everything he could to save money and pay off their debt. Unfortunately, he ends up breaking his leg, losing money to leave the South, however McAllen’s wife, Laura pays for the best doctor in town to fix him and he earns enough money at the end of the movie, ending with the line, “Beginnings are elusive things. Just when you think you have hold of one, you look back and see another one” (Dee Rees Mudbound), showing that they could not get to where they were, wealthy with plenty of crops to support themselves without coming up from a poor environment and being determined to leave it behind.

After being experimented on without consent and then later discovering a new type of cell to benefit mankind, one would expect some form of income. In the novel, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, by Rebecca Skloot, the Lacks family have fought with the government and John Hopkins on the issue on the doctors experimenting on a family member without any consent and believed they deserved compensation, however, even after their argument the court ruled that a person’s dead body and cells are no longer family property and can be commercialized. After documenting the story of Henrietta Lacks and her family, Skloot used her influence and, “established the Henrietta Lacks Foundation. Some of the proceeds of this book are being donated by the author to the Foundation” (Skloot 315), and objective of the organization is to provide grants for education, health care, and emergency needs for descendants of family members who were experimented on and contributed towards scientific research. The author gives individuals a way to avoid having poverty and rewarding them benefits to take care of families in need of assistance with debt or the need for insurance and opportunity to obtain an education.

In another novel, there is the story about two unlikely people switching lives with each other, titled The Prince and The Pauper, by Mark Twain. Tom, the pauper, meets the prince of the kingdom, Edward, and after swapping lives, Tom uses his power not as a tyrant but as a benevolent prince. He explains that, “In truth, being a king is not all dreariness- it hath its compensations and conveniences” (Twain 15.11), showing that despite growing up in a harsh environment where you have to fight for resources to survive, where he has not been properly educated on the power on the crown, Tom uses his new level of authority to help the poor within the kingdom and gained their affections when Edward reclaims the throne and rule over them differently than his family has done for generations, especially after experiencing the life of the poor. In the end, Edward provided Tom and his family the means to escape poverty by giving them enough money to better themselves for the future, showing that in the end Tom was able to live the life he always wanted, but also a reward for not letting the power go to his head and helped as many as he could.

While there may always be opportunities to escape poverty or earning benefits for your families, there will always be obstacles in your way from obtaining them. During her investigation on Henrietta, Skloot discovered that John Hopkins wasn’t the family’s first choice, “not because they preferred it, but because it was the only major hospital for miles that treated black patients. This was the era of Jim Crow—when black people showed up at white-only hospitals, the staff was likely to send them away, even it if meant they might die in the parking lot.” (Skloot 15). In the 1950s, blacks did not have the same benefits as they do today, so the Lack family had to make do with the resources around them to try and help Henrietta, especially with the Jim Crow laws in place, there was no where for them to go. Skloot goes further into how racism may have been the reason why Henrietta was the only one experimented on by saying, “There's no way of knowing whether or how Henrietta's treatment would have differed if she'd been white. But several studies have shown that black patients were treated and hospitalized at later stages of their illnesses than white patients. And once hospitalized, they got fewer pain medications, and had higher mortality rates” (Skloot 65).

The Jim Crow laws affected a lot of African-Americans in the United States; separating them from the whites, less job opportunities, and surviving brutal beatings and harassment from police. While the brutality is still an issue today, with the Jim Crow laws in place it gave black people the motivation to abolish these laws and escape the treatment placed in them and the chance to have equal footing with white people, which resulted in the formation of the NAACP. During the 1920s through the 1930s, the city of Harlem gave black people the opportunity to make a name for themselves, allowing people like Duke Ellington, W. E. B. Du Bois, and Langston Hughes to become nationwide names without being judged by the color of their skin, especially since, they all were part of the Harlem Renaissance and contributed to the American culture as a whole and provided multiple opportunities for the next generation to find talent in the arts and earn money for doing something you love to do.

It is not easy to live in poverty, with obstacles like racism, poor healthcare, and no form of education to have a building block to support yourself with. However, that should not deteriorate your resolve to better yourself and escape from the poor establishment you grew up in or are currently in, because no one wants to be broke forever. If you have a dream, chase after it until you have obtained it; the color of your skin, your living conditions, and if it cannot be helped, your health should not hinder you from obtaining the riches you think you deserve and more. 



Mudbound. Dir. Dee Rees. Perf. Carey Mulligan, Jason Clarke, Jason Mitchell, Mary J. Blige, Rob Morgan, Johnathan Banks, Garrett Hedlund. Netflix, 2017. Film

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers. 2009

