





	Love is a powerful emotion but can be abused. Certain people feel stuck or be delusional of the situation and does not want to bring that thought into light. “How to identify love by knowing what it’s not” is a story that identifies emotional hardships in a relationship and it describes love, explains what an abusive partner is, and gives advice.

	Experiencing a really deep feeling for another person is a special encounter that everyone wants to have. Sometimes people do not fall in love with another for the experience of happiness, but to take advantage of a person. Augusten Burroughs says, “It is not in love’s interest for your self-esteem to be low”. A partner that genuinely cares for the others well-being would not want them to become different. Falling in love and real love are not the same and it is important to know the difference. “Love does not ask or even wants you to change”, says Burroughs. The controlling one's are the most difficult.

	Having an abusive partner is heartbreaking and can cause damage when trying to start a new relationship with others. Abusers act as though they care about the other person and also can be very manipulative people. “They may, speak very kind words. And appear nothing but supportive to those around you.” says Burrough. That can be translated into emotional abuse. There are many different types have abuse that happens, physical, emotional, verbal, etc. Sometimes the different violences can be hard to be aware of or often times just do not want to be aware of the thought of the love one doing such thing. 

Getting advice from someone, if it is a loved one or even a professional, it is important to get that guidance. Talking to someone and getting them to show the reality of the unhealthy situation is essential. Seeing another perspective. Thinking about what the other person is saying to oneself or what actions they are doing to you. Sometimes it can difficult to see the abuse happening, especially when in love with the abuser. Burroughs says, “Ask, if he said that to a friend, would i think it was mean.”, “It’s so difficult to see something that to the rest of the world is so obvious…”

Identifying an abusive relationship, rather it be domestic violence or just being overly controlling, how to identify love by knowing what it’s not gives amazing advice and explanations on tough situations on abusive love. Do not fall for someone who is not in one’s best interest and make sure to leave an abusive relationship as soon as possible because the other person will take the love given for granted. They will know, when they mess up all that has to be done is apologize and it will but done because the love from the other person is too strong to leave.