A Man’s BEST-Friend



	Since the beginning of time, dogs have accompanied humans through all ventures in life. 36.5% of households in the United States own a dog, the most of any animal. In an excerpt from Brian Doyle’s A Note on Mascots, Doyle examines the relationship between animals and their symbolic meaning, which best represents the popular culture of mascots. He further explains his personal experiences growing up, cultivating the spiritual aspect of animals.  An experience I felt an animal mattered to me spiritually was with a dog. The internal connection I experienced with the dog at that time, was realizing the importance of dogs. Personally, the feeling of importance is important to me; feeling wanted, cherish and valuable. In that moment, I realized why. Their compassion to their owner speaks tremendous volume, the symbolic presence of patriotism they represent, and their trait of personification to the human eye. The importance of a dog mattered to me spiritually because of the connection to their loyalty, patriotism, and trait of personification. 

	In connection to Doyle’s comparison to animals and mascots, their loyalty defines who they are. A team’s mascot is initially their biggest and most loyal fan. They are the face and 


representation of the team. In most cases, a mascot will never change; therefore they are with you forever. “Beyond all the obvious reasons we choose animals as symbols for our sporting teams – their incredible energy and muscle, grace and strength, intelligence and verve…” (Doyle 180). With dogs, their compassion speaks for itself. Their owners confine in them to love, comfort and support them. The importance of a dog is simply their ability to be loyal, as they never leave those they truly love.

	A mascot represents a school’s pride, history, and integrity. “I think we love animals as images because we miss them in the flesh… and because they matter to us spiritually in ways we cannot hope to articulate” (Doyle 180). Dogs were the first animal to be household pets in America, making them the first pet. Dogs symbolize a symbolic presence of patriotism. They have their own professional dog shows, our presidents own them, our country’s pet is the Golden Retriever (which happens to be a dog). Dogs represent a nation, with the message of loyalty and compassion. The importance of dogs further examines by praising and loving our country.

	“Maybe that’s what we miss the most – the feeling that they are our cousins and not clans of creatures who once filled the earth…” (Doyle 180). Dogs are one of the smartest animals on the planet. This gives them the trait of personification, as they have human traits they inquire. A dog gets feed, pampered, washed, all daily things us as humans go through. The importance of dogs is easy to observe, they are little humans. Whether they are abandoned, taken care of, or just wild, dogs are important to human life because they are one of us.

	

My spiritual connection to the dog in that moment is probably mutual. The dog too probably realizes my imp. The dog and I both shared the feeling of feeling importance, the feeling of being valued. Through their love and compassion they share everyday with their owners, the light they bring into our worlds. With their symbolic presence of patriotism, we honor and respect dogs. Their trait of personification which we relate to them, as they are one of us. A dog is not long a man’s best friend, but everybody’s. 