“The Reality of Sloppy People”

    

Is the five second rule more of a suggestion? Sloppy is more like clutter items in places where they don’t belong. To be sloppy is to have lack of care and organization. Sloppiness doesn’t always equal out to be messy. Sloppiness doesn’t just mean to be messy but also to be weak, loose-fitted, and have excessive casualness.  Messiness is a way to understand how much you do and do not care about things in life because, it can tell if your lazy, creative, and loving.

   	  Firstly, messiness is a way to tell if your lazy. You do things like drink out of the actual bottle or eat pasta with your hands because taking a moment to wash some dirty dishes is absurd. The moment cleaning crosses the mind, the line “I’ll do it later” comes to play. Dropping something but ignore it and pick it up later. “books spill from the shelves into the floor, the clothes pile up in the hamper and closet, the family mementos accumulate in every drawer, the surface of the desk is buried under mounds of people and the unread magazine threaten to reach the ceiling” (Britt).  This quote help show the laziness within people who are sloppy, as we are allowed to see how they don’t care to clean up a small mess.

 Secondly, messiness is a way to tell if your creative because, it is a high prioritizing system. The mess sloppy people create can helps try new ideas. As the person draws on a range of memories, cognitive styles, and emotions influences psychological strengths. Which tend to create creativity. “Someday sloppy people will make family scrapbooks into which they will out newspaper clippings, postcards, lock of hair, and the dried corsage from their senior prom” (Britt). 



Sloppy people tend to have a loving personality to everyone because they don’t try to be perfect or care for perfection. “Sloppy people can't bear to part with anything. They give loving attention to every detail”. This quote is stating that sloppy people don’t overlook anything, they give their attention to everything versus focusing on small details. Many sloppy people do not judge anything or anybody.  Sloppy people not judging people ties in with them not caring about things being “perfect”. They know their mess is not always “pretty” so judging other people would basically be the sloppy person judging themselves. They use rationalize behavior in order to make decisions that mostly benefit them, instead of caring about what others may think.



Messiness do not always have to have a negative concept. Messiness can be seen as negative or positive. It can show how much you care about things in life, by having the characteristics of being lazy, creative, and loving.

