What Is Love And What It Is Not?

A lot of women are confused on what is love and what it is not, their confused by the idea of what is right from wrong when it comes to their partner. In the short story How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not by Augusten Burroughs, he “explores the delusions that can lead people to mistake cruelty for caring” (Burroughs 470). Burroughs started off the short story by giving examples of what love is not and followed it by giving examples of what it is. He gives people insight on abuse and that people should leave a situation like that. Statistically women between the ages 18-24 are commonly abused by an intimate partner, 15% of these violent related crimes are intimate partner related (NCADV). Abuse is a spectrum ranging from physical abuse, verbal abuse, and sexual abuse. 

Love is not being physically abused, physical abuse is a conscious act of causing injury or trauma on another person. Often physical abuse includes injuries such as bruises and dislocated or fractured bones, as well as health issues like infertility, miscarriages, or early delivery due to stress. Statistics show that 1 in every 4 women are victims of severe physical violence by an intimate partner in their lifetime (NCADV). Love does not use a fist to cause pain but uses his hand to hold the victim when the victim had a long day. Love does not stress the victim out to the fact that she has a miscarriage, but instead makes her pregnancy as stress free and positive as can be. Despite being abused, most women do not leave abusive relationships because the abuser tells them it will not happen again. Abusers typically manipulate the victim by buying gifts such as jewelry and taking them on dates to make up for their behavior. And because they think they are in love with the abuser they believe him, but that in fact is not love. Love is not being controlled and manipulated. 

Without a doubt, love is not being verbally abused, verbal abuse is when the abuser taunts the victim, making her feel unloved as well as unworthy of respect. Verbal abuse includes name calling and making derogatory comments as well as controlling behavior from the abuser. Which makes the victim feel as though they cannot do anything because they are being threatened and intimidated. For instance, author Augusten Burroughs said, “An abusive partner is controlling. They are manipulative. They might supply reasonable arguments as to why they and not you should make important decisions (Burroughs 471).” This type of manipulation is when the abuser says the victim can not leave the house, and their reason is because they said so and they are in charge, so the victim must abide by their rules. This shows control rather than love because the victims partner should make them feel as though they have a say and control of their own life. Love never makes the victim feel out of control or belittles them, calling them fat or lazy or ugly. Love does not stop them from communicating with the outside world including family and friends. Love does tell the person that they are beautiful, they appreciate them, and they ask their input-on things. 

In addition, love is not being sexually abused, sexual abuse is unwanted sexual activity from the abuser using force, making threats, and/or taking advantage of the victim without consent. Forceful sex/unwanted sex is nonconsensual and feeling like the victim does not have a choice because they are being threatened. The abuser uses sex as a way of control and that is not love. Some women feel as though they cannot be raped by their partner because they are together but that is not the case. For example, marital or partner rape is known as force-only rape which is a type of rape “when physical violence is not preset. As with all rape, this type of spousal rape is spurred by a desire to exert power and control over another person. This desire manifests in acting as if sex is entitlement to one party from another (Tracy).” Love is enjoying sexual intercourse with the persons partner because they love and respect each other, not being forced to when the person does not want to with a weapon being help up against their body.

In conclusion, love is not abuse in anyway, abuse ranges from physical abuse, verbal abuse, and sexual abuse. Love is knowing that the other partner has respect for you, they respect the type of person you are. They do not put you down by making derogatory comments about the victim’s appearance and then physically assaulting them because of that. Someone who loves their partner makes them feel comfortable in the skin that they are in, they make their partner feel comfortable being around them. Love is not being forced to have sex with them just because it is an intimate relationship, causing them to feel threatened or intimidated by the abuser. It’s important to understand what love is and what it’s not so that the victim knows that they are not with someone who is possibly dangerous. And by understanding what love is not will help victims of abuse leave their abusive partner because they will know all the signs of someone who’s abusive. It would be best to leave a relationship when you do not feel loved. 





Works Cited

“NCADV | National Coalition Against Domestic Violence.” The Nation's Leading Grassroots Voice on Domestic Violence, ncadv.org/statistics.

Burroughs, Augusten. “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It's Not.” The Bedford Reader, by X. J. Kennedy et al., Bedford/St.Martin's, 2017, pp. 470–474.

Tracy, Natasha. “Marital Rape, Spousal Rape.” HealthyPlace, www.healthyplace.com/abuse/rape/marital-rape-spousal-rape/.