

Do you think your neatness is a way to understand how much you do not care about the things in your life?

	In today’s world, there are lots of controversies going on between neat people and sloppy people. Neat people feel as if they are always superior and tend to look down upon sloppy people. The personalities of neat people is about being silk, precise and accurate and needs everything that has to do with them in an orderly manner, However, in contrast to the phrase “Cleanliness is next to Godliness,” neat people lack morals and values, are mean and are lazy.

	Neat people lack morals and values. In the essay Britt mention that the distinction between neat and sloppy people is as always “morals”. Neat people treat sloppy people base on their appearance and do not believe that everyone deserves equal rights to be treated with respect. For instance, in the work place neat people think that because of the disorderliness of sloppy people surroundings their ideas are not relevant and they cannot come up with something productive base on their untidy surroundings.

	In addition, neat people are always mean. Everyone should be treated equally regardless of the way you look or your background. Everyone should be given the same opportunities as others. For example, there are some part in Africa not everybody can afford a TV in their homes. So, if you come to the house in a sloppy way you will not be allowed to come in and watch the TV. This shows how mean neat people can be. For somebody to be rejected just because of the way they look is not fair.

	Finally, neat people are also lazy. Britt also state that neat people operates on two unvarying principles. Never handle any item twice, and throw everything away. Because neat people like everything in an organized manner they will even trash away a dish that they would have wash and use it for the second time. Also, neat people do not care about process they like results. They do not want to go through the whole process of taking the dirty clothes to the laundry, put them in the washer and dryer. They will just trash because in their head they think that all that process is a mess. 

	In conclusion, everyone should be treated equally not judge base on your appearance or the way you look, because sloppy people can also do well in their activities even if they lack serious organizing skills. Sloppiness should not always be equated to be bad work because there are people who are disorganized but are very good in what ever they do. 



















Work Cited

Britt, Suzanne.” Neat People vs. Sloppy People. “ The Bedford Reader, edited by X.J Kennedy, Dorothy M. Kennedy and Jane E. Aaron, 2016, pp. 221-23.











