Farmer or Slave?

What is sharecropping? It is defined as ‘a tenant farmer who gives a part of each crop as rent’. In the movie, Mud bound, taking place in rural Mississippi the Jackson family were sharecroppers for the McAllen family, trying to earn as much money and save it in order to be able move up North and own their own land as free blacks. But when the Jackson’s mule died of lockjaw, that dream seemed harder to reach and Hap became desperate to grow as much crop as he could to keep the status quo, even after breaking his leg. But why was he so hesitant to rent a mule to make the farming easier? Through the use of historical information, personal stories, and details from the movie, these details will explain why Hap didn’t want to rent McAllen’s mule and go from a tenet farmer to a share cropper.

    Hap is a man of tradition and a firm believer of getting results through his own hard work without any aid from ‘the white man’. But after breaking his leg, McAllen, the master wants him to rent a mule to be able to reach the status quo by the end of the year. However, Hap isn’t all for it because that would cause him to lose money he doesn’t have, and in his mind, make him a sharecropper. Sharecropping is another form of slavery, practiced by former slaves in the south where they would stay on the plantation, work the farm and get paid half of what they grow. The Jackson family has already been doing that, but if they rent the mule, their pay could be cut from getting paid half, to getting paid a quarter of what they grew, and in Hap’s eyes, that would make his family slaves to the McAllen family if they can’t pay off their debt.

    The movie takes place during and after World War II; in Mississippi “about a third of the white farmers were sharecroppers, and more than three-quarters of the black farmers were sharecroppers. Nearly all of the land-owners, though, were white.” And during this era, blacks were still being treated as beings lesser than people, so while they were able to find work in the south, there wasn’t always fair pay. If the tenant farmers didn’t collect enough rent money, they would be in debt and couldn’t leave the farm, which is why Hap was so adamant to get out of his bed a week early with his broken leg because he was eyeing land up North to move his family to, but renting a mule would throw a wrench in his plans.

In the beginning of the movie, McAllen invested everything he had in the farm after being conned out of his money. And with the Great Depression and World War II taking place, there wasn’t a lot of job opportunities expect working on the farm, but the McAllen’s didn’t have a lot of money which meant not a lot of money for the Jackson’s. While the Jackson family was on rented land, they could still get kicked off if they didn’t earn enough money from growing crops.  Sharecropping wasn’t the most effective way to earn money in the south, but it was one of the only options some families had, even after being in debt. Hap and his family used every opportunity they could to get grow their crops and earn their pay, even his wife, Florence, took a job as the McAllen’s midwife to take care of their children, even though he disapproved, because that was how slaves were treated.

Mud bound gave the audience a good look at how life was in the the 1940s from multiple perspectives. Hap Jackson is a man whose main concern was making sure his family was taken care of and had everything they could dream by being the best farmer he can be. Despite sustained a crippling injury, he still refused to rent the McAllen’s mule because in his eyes, he is a tenant farmer taking care of his land, not a slave tending to the master’s crops.







































Work Cited

http://www.pbs.org/tpt/slavery-by-another-name/themes/sharecropping/

https://www.history.com/topics/black-history/sharecropping







































Outline

Introduction

Main point: Definition of Sharecropping

Main point: Explanation for Hap’s stubbornness to not rent a mule



Conclusion

