Neat people vs. Sloppy people

Many people argue that neat people are organized, energetic and useful. It is the popular belief, and it makes sense since neat people go to a lot of trouble to ensure they remain neat and place everything where it belongs. Suzanne Britt, author of the essay “Neat People vs. Sloppy+ People”, argues that neat people are lazy. She is sarcastic in most of her writings, so perhaps she is just being sarcastic. However, reading a piece from someone who has a different perspective from the common belief brings about realizations. Suzanne Britt’s assumptions about sloppy people are correct because sloppy people are not good with time management, do not care about their mess and sloppy people tend to not pay attention as to their mess.

Sloppy people are messy because they aim too high and wide, which occupies the time they should use organizing things or trying to be neat. When you are busy planning on how you will achieve what you have set for the day, you will rarely get time to arrange the things in your room or office. Being overambitious can make one concentrate on other issues rather than being neat. The observation Britt makes about the mail appears to be true; she says, “Neat people especially vicious with mail. They never go through [their] mail unless they are standing under a trashcan. If the trash can is [beside] the mailbox, even better” (Britt). Neat people will not like to keep trash in their lives so that they will toss it off. Sloppy people are unorganized because they cannot part with most of the things that make their lives messy, hence the conclusion that they are more compassionate than neat people. Someone who wants to remain neat, will not have the sentimental attachment to things that make their lives messy and unorganized. Thus, the observations Britt about the time management skills of sloppy people hold some truth. 

Britt also says that sloppy people keep their lives and things around them messy because they do not care, saying, “Sloppy people carry in their mind’s eye a heavenly vision, a precise plan, that is so stupendous, so perfect, it can’t be achieved in this world or the next”. The conclusion she makes about sloppy people having a perfect plan that cannot be met in this world or the next is true. Everyone wants to be accepted. However, sloppy people do not care whether someone approves of their messy lives or not, which might be explained by the reason Britt gives, that their aspirations are often too “precise” for this world. Additionally, sloppy people have plans to be neat, but never get the time to clean up. Sloppy people do not care about the result, they only care about the process. 

However, Britt asserts that neat people are lazy. This may be true, but neat people are only lazy because they place everything where it belongs so they will not have to look for it when they need it. Sloppy people are also messy. Even sloppy people knows there making mess, because they’re too busy to worried about what they’re doing that they are making mess .Sloppy people are messy because they don't care to be clean. Moreover, Britt describes neat people as being “incredibly wasteful” because people who throw away all that is not needed. All people have things they place sentimental value on. The conclusion Britt makes about sending children to boarding schools is untrue because; there are messy people with tight schedules that may perhaps send their children to boarding schools. Therefore, her conclusions are subject to debate since not all what she says appears to be true.  

Suzanne Britt’s assumptions about sloppy people are correct because sloppy people are not good with time management, they do not care about their mess and sloppy people tend to not pay attention as to their mess. Sloppy and people neat people and how both of them are not same it mostly states that point blank there different. Often it contains now the comparisons of the two sloppy people are messy there too busy and constantly working during day to be neat. However, neat people will not like to keep trash in their lives so that they will toss it off. People who are neat will have the sentimental attachment to things that make their lives messy and unorganized. Sloppy people are messy they do not care to be clean.  People should be sloppy then to just be neat alone because if they rather be neat they will be worried about staying neat unlike sloppy people they do not need to worry because, they calm down and do their job and work without constantly, having to fix things to be neat.



















                                                           

                                                              Work cited

Brandon, Lee E, and Kelly Brandon. Paragraphs and Essays: With Integrated Readings. Boston, MA: Wadsworth/Cengage Learning, 2017. Print.