The Immortal Life 



With the recent advancements in the medical field and the passion to come up with solutions for the many illnesses that are rampaging the world today, researchers have gone to an extent of doing all they could to see that their goal is achieved. While the entire world is celebrating the major achievements seen in the medical field today, it is very crucial to hold the researchers accountable for how they perform some of these researches. One area that is very important is how they get the specimens for their research. The case scenario is in the book titled The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. This lady suffered from cervical cancer (Skloot & Bahni 206). When she was taken to the hospital, a doctor took advantage of the situation and extracted some cells from her autopsy which he used for research. The cells were distributed worldwide and many breakthroughs were seen through the cells of Henrietta. However, this was all done without consent. Neither she or her family was informed or requested to give consent. It is particularly very sad that while the entire world is happy that medical field is flourishing from Henrietta’s body cells, her family remains in lack of health insurance.While Researchers claim that their medical research is for the greater good, they should not be allowed to conduct research on patients without informed consent because of ethical issues, lack of privacy, and basic human rights. 

Informed consent is a legal and ethical requirement in any research conducted using human participants. After being informed of the processes and trials, the participant is to be allowed to decide whether he or she would accept the deal. It should be a voluntary initiative and not something done without knowledge. The consent should involve revealing to the subject his or her rights, why the study is being carried out, the specific procedures that are to be undertaken and the potential benefits and risks from the process. The researchers should also assure the participant that confidentiality will be maintained at the highest level and that they are free to accept or to decline the request (Catlin 205). However, in the case of Henrietta, this was not done. Her cells were used as tests all over without any of her children and family members having knowledge. She was never asked whether she would allow doctors to extract her cells or not. 



Furthermore, Lack of consent instills mistrust in the public about medical professionals. If the doctors and scientists cannot be honest and open with their clients, then it implies that the privacy records of those patients won’t be respected. People believe that many people somewhere around the world are making great profit margins as a result of tissues and drugs which were developed by use of the tissues extracted from their relatives and friends, but thought they are entitled to some share of the profits, they will never get them. This skepticism is revealed by Rebecca Skloot, and above it all is the knowledge of how Henrietta’s family feels played, fooled and mistreated by journalists, physicians, corporations, and researchers. Skloot states that the voice of readers is that they ‘want to know what is going on’ (Skloot & Bahni 204). People don’t want to feel uncertain about things that are going on behind the back of people. Researchers should learn to respect and acknowledge the individual humanity. 

 

Additionally, using human’s cells without consent is disrespect to the person and the family. Henrietta’s family emotional ordeal is traced by Skloot from the disrespect of the law and ethics that govern the collection of tissues. Worse still, the journalists took upon themselves to publicly and carelessly publish everything that they found in the medical records of Henrietta. This is an act of violating the privacy of the entire family, since their genetic information is now known all over the world without their permission. Deborah’s complaint in the book reveals that the family is hurt by the fact that they are paying a lot of money to access drugs that their mother helped to come up with. She states that she needs to be given health insurance because it was basically their family that inspired the great advancements in the medical field (Moore 589). 

Opponents of these views present several arguments. Often the researchers state that the research was made for the good of the majority. They claim that the mistake that people are asking them to stop is not comparable to the benefits that come after the research is done. The researchers and the physicists are so loud in giving evidence which is intended to cover their mistakes. Many people outside the scene tend to agree with them because it sounds good to the public. They claim that they did it so as to save the world of so many illnesses and chronic problems that for so long have been a burden to the world. Many noble prizes are won because of these new inventions in the medical world. Therefore, by many aspects, researchers appear justified. This is especially because people have been waiting to see breakthroughs in the medical field after a long time of suffering, particularly in the hands of cancer (Catlin 207). So scientists take advantage of the good report that they have finally achieved something great.

However, these views may easily be refuted. While this may be true to some extent, there is more to it than just the success of the research. Most of the clinical trials have their potential risks. If the subject is killed because of the good of the majority, this is not different from mere murder. No one is to be sacrificed unwillingly for others. It is against the basic human rights to extract any cell, tissue or organ from them without consent. It shows that the subject bears no value as a human, but he or she is treated as an animal. This is disrespect to human rights (Duca 12). Many people today are happy that medical researchers have traced the course of cancer from Henrietta’s cells. However, neither Henrietta nor her family benefited from her cells. Researchers then should not be allowed to conduct research using human subject without consent. 

In conclusion, the case of Henrietta Lacks illustrates the misuse of poor and helpless African American patients. Henrietta lives eternally in the hands of scientist and researchers while she died long ago in her own family. If she was given a chance to choose, she would definitely choose to get well and have a happy reunion with her family. If her family was allowed to choose what to happen with their mother’s cells, they would definitely choose to have her treated of cancer successfully and return home to continue with her family life. However, all this has been reversed by lack of consent by the researchers (Wolf 140). The researchers bypassed the will of the subject and her entire family and decided for their good which stands as the worst of the family. Therefore, by all means, the researchers are not to be allowed to carry out a medical research on patients without informed consent due to lack of privacy, ethics, and respect for human rights. 



















































Works cited



Catlin, Anita. "The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks." Pediatric Nursing 36.4 (2010): 204-205.

This article discusses the experience that Henrietta went through in the hospital bed of the blacks. It was an excruciating pain in the hands of cancer that she died. Regardless of her painful death experience, the researchers forgot to reward her family. So the article is against researchers in medical field who are dishonest and untrustworthy. 



Moore, John M. "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks." The American Biology Teacher 72.9 	(2010): 586-	588.

The approach that Moore takes is that of biology. He describes of the cells from the lady were dividing very fast in the test tubes. However, he points out that regardless of the breakthroughs in biology and medicine, it has to be done after informed consent from the patient or the family. 



Skloot, Rebecca, and Bahni Turpin. "The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks." (2010): 204-7.

Skloot et al describes the entire experience of extracting the cells from Henrietta without informed consent. It is wrong to use a human being as a trial subject without asking for their permission and having their will in play. Skloot condemns the idea of medical specialists to use patients as subjects in clinical research. 



Duca, Edward. "The immortal life of Henrietta Lacks." (2014).

This article is a summary of the book. It gives details of the cervical cancer woman who was misused and mistreated by the researchers, journalists and physicians without her knowledge 



Wolf, Jacqueline H. "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks." Journal of the History of   Medicine and Allied Sciences 66.1 (2011): 139-141.This article is a link between medicine and history of black mistreatment in U.S. It reveals how Henrietta stands as embodiment of blacks in the entire course of developing medical field. Africans have been made to be subjects in many aspects of medicine in the name of saving the superior whites. It has even gone deeper to an extent of not asking them for consent, as it is the case with Henrietta. 















