Spirited away

	One has only dreamt of walking in a forest, and an enormous deer wanders pass. They may find it to be unusual, so they begin to investigate to realized that the deer that passed by them was an Elk. They’ll soon see they share similarities with an Elk, including: the bond between wanting to protect love ones, being aggressive when threatened, and having patience’s to succeed.

	Many should be honored to have an elk as a spirit animal, due to it being a powerful totem. Elks are a species that work together to survive. No one will ever find an elk alone, because they tend to move as a group. One should always keep in mind, that they only have one life and if they’re struggling always ask for help. When having an elk as a totem animal, it’s important to remember to maintain a healthy relationship with friends and family. Also, being able to help and protect each other through rough times. 

Elks are graceful creatures, and unlike other animals, they roam through forests with a sense of style with their heads held high. “If the Elk is your spirit animal, then you are standing proud and strong on the earth.” In any moment an Elk feels unsafe, they’ll attack aggressively to defend themselves. This person is someone who has nothing but pride in coming out of a nice shell when the moment comes where one must protect themselves or those they care for. In this type of situation, coming off as a bit assertive wouldn’t be a bad thing. But, it’d show that they’re someone who has a strong side to them. 

“If you see the Elk as your spirit animal, then it means that you’ll have a lot of success in a future period.” Have multiple things to do at once? Is this someone who wants everything to work in their favor? For things to work out, they’ll need to take one thing at a time. Rather than rushing everything that comes their way. Always keep in mind that “patience is the key to success”. Never second guess the first choice that has already been made. 

In conclusion, they’ll soon see they share similarities with an Elk, including: the bond between wanting to protect those loved, being aggressive when feeling threatened, and gaining more self-confidence. Elks have many other characteristics that make them a powerful spirit animal to have. Like having courage, quick response, energy, and pride. Everyone has a spirit animal that they can relate to, but not everyone has encountered them in a dream.













					



Work Cited

“Elk – Spirit Animal, Symbolism and Meaning.” Dreaming and Sleeping, dreamingandsleeping.com/elk-spirit-animal-symbolism-and-meaning/. 26 February 2018, 1:18

