"How to Identify Love by Knowing What It Is Not"

Love is an intense feeling of affection, not abuse. Love doesn't intentionally hurt you nor make you feel less worthy than the next. Love does not control you and take you away from your loved ones, nor your life. Love is not abuse, which it can be emotional, mental, and physical.

Emotional abuse is an attempt to control. Emotional abuse can start off as name calling and escalate to "verbal untraceable poison." When your partner constantly makes fun of you because of the way you talk, walk, and/or look, that is a form of abuse. When your partner constantly puts you down by saying negative things to hurt you, this is emotional abuse. Constantly playing with someone's emotions and playing mind games are forms of emotional abuse, which can later lead to emotional trauma, trust issues, and insecurities.

Mental abuse is a type of violence that effects the mind in ways that leaves the victim feeling worthless and less empowered. Mental abuse can start from having a resentful partner to having arguments about who makes important decisions and why. Mind control/ manipulation is a common problem with mental abuse. To the victim, there's no way out and the abuse will continue. The mentally abused victim is literally stuck between a rock and a hard place because no matter what the abuser says, the victim will always be stuck in a trap. Mental abuse ties in with emotional abuse in ways that the victim can't just leave because of the luring and apologetic words that the abuser says.

Domestic violence is a common type of physical abuse. Physical abuse can start as aggression (grabbing and shaking victim) to physically striking the victim. The aggressor in this situation could have had a bad day, was irritated, or angry and decided to harm the victim because of one's own frustration. Physical abuse isn't just hitting the victim, it can be kicking, pulling hair, and yanking on victim.

In conclusion, love is not abuse. Love is not emotional, mental, nor physical pain, especially not form your lover. If you or anyone you know is in or may think that they maybe in an abusive relationship, pay attention to signs, try to leave the relationship, and/or call the National Domestic Violence Hotline.

