 In the film Mudbound, an illustration of two different families living similar lives is depicted. The first family the Jackson’s are African-American  tenant farmers, while the second  family is caucasian. The Jackson’s eldest son  Ronsel is a war hero along with Jamie McAllan, as the two return from their long endeavors they become unlikely friends. Towards the end of movie Jaime is given the burden of choosing Ronsel’s punishment which is castration or amputation of the tongue. Ronsel is not given the right to choose his punishment because he is black, his oppressors are the KKK, and they seek to dehumanize him.



	Ronsel as a black man in 1940 America faced an immense amount of oppression. In the 1940s black people were not allowed any rights. Hence the fact that Ronsel was not allowed to pick his own punishment. The concept of segregation deep rooted in the minds of black oppressors, has led to a very motivated resistance to changing morals and values. In “Still a Long Time” an article written by  Alabama’s white Democrats called a constitutional convention in 1901. At the convention, they drafted and ratified a state constitution that granted county registrars the power to reject voters and that produced several requirements for voting (including literacy tests and poll taxes).” This change to the constitution targeted primarily black population in the U.S. In the article “





	In addition to Ronsel being black, his oppressors are the KKK. The KKK is an organization that encourages white supremacy and anti-semitism. The KKK is known for an abundant amount of extreme terrorism against black people. In 1921 Tulsa, Oklahoma a riot took place from May 31 to June 1 due to the arrest of Dick Rowland. According to Tulsa Historical Society & Museum “In the early morning hours of June 1, 1921, Greenwood was looted and burned by white rioters.” Greenwood is primarily an African-American community. The founder of the Tulsa KKK, W. Tate Brady, participated in the riots.

