
     The use of African American patients for medical research without appropriat consent.

The donation of organs is highly responsible and admirable thing one can do in his or her life. It is considered as something that is heroic because in most cases it leads to saving of other people life . Such acts or organ donations can have some life implications to the donor resulting sometimes into death. However, that subject matter is shifting from consent donation to patients losing their organs without appropriate consent seeking by the doctor. This habit has greatly affected African American patients for years. A case in point relates to Henrietta Lacks in the year 1951 who was subjected to organ and patient medical research without appropriate consent. In trying to defend their inhuman acts, the doctors who were responsible for the different medical research asserted that "this was done for the better good than bad in the medical field." It is not disputed that since then, the Henrietta Lacks medical research has resulted into acting as a source for the HeLa cell line. According to doctors, this is considered the first "immortalized cell line" which is one of the most important cell lines in the medical research in relation to cancer 

                                                                                                                                            2
treatment. However, though such a milestone of discoveries was conducted, it is ethically and professionally wrong to get to use patient and their organs without their consent.               
Research has for ages found out that for consecutive years, the rate at which people are willing to go for organ failure treatment decreased because of such case of Henrietta Lacks. This has decreased the number of patients will to genuinely donate their organs or offer their bodies to be used for medical research. African American patients are being subjected to medical research without appropriate consent from them or their family. Though this has greatly lead to different important medical related discoveries, like for the case of Henrietta lacks where  HeLa cell line was discovered, such acts remain unacceptable and against ethical standards. Such acts have resulted in doctors failing to save the lives of some patients willingly.
The first reason is that the act by doctors to carry out medical research on black patients without appropriate consent is illegal and against all forms of any professional conduct. Numerous laws in different countries and across the world assert that before any medical personnel carry’s out any form of medical research on the body or organ of the patient, there must be a clear informed consent from the patient. So it is wrong for any doctor to perform such medical research without the patient's consent. It should be noted that there must be informed consent not consent alone. This means that the doctor must tell the black patient of the possible consequences of the research he is about to perform on his or her body. What could be some of the possible negative effects and positive effects? It is from this explanation that the black patients are left to take his 

                                                                                                                                            3
or her consent without any kind of force (Simillis, p.84). Without such informed explaination, it is assumed illegal for the doctor to proceed with any research. If he does, this calls for his arrest and being prosecuted in the courts of law. It is from the basis of the law to urge that researching using bodies or organs of people without their informed consent of inappropriate despite the benefits it is capable to bring to the world. Excuses should never be fronted that the patient cannot be informed  about the consent. The law asserts that "in case the patient is deemed to be of unsound mind, informed consent must be got from the family."  
There has been intended neglect of patient and sometimes left to die by doctors with the hope and intention of getting organs from African American patients or some time to perform on them some medical research. Doctors make use of the organs from the patients to make some important discoveries like the treatment of the recent cancer was discovered from the Henrietta lacks' 1951 medical research. it is believed and has been confirmed that the doctors who were responsible for treating Henrietta lacks did it intentionally to let her die so that they can perform their intended  medical research. According to medical profession, the doctors have to fight hard to save the life of the patient even if it is deemed that he or she will eventually die. There is not any person who has the right to terminate one's life for intentions of making use of her body and organs for medical research. Appropriate consent need to the got from the patient or the family members before such medical research is conducted. Research by the American medical department has showed that due to doctors need to perform medical research on some human 

                                                                                                                                      4
living organs or sometimes dead humans, 20% of the seriously ill black patients have been left to die in order to fulfill the doctor’s study needs. "When the back patients showed up in predominantly white hospitals they were sent way even if they were seen to be dying in the parking lot."(Rebecca, p.15) Because of the increasing number of cases where black patient’s organs and parents are being placed in medical research without any form of appropriate consent, it has resulted into decrease in the number of black patient with acute disease to seek medical attention in some hospitals. Many black patients have been seen to opt to get treatment at home and some time in some local hospitals which are not known to be capable of treating such acute health complications. All this is driven by the fact that many black patients are subjected to organ and patient medical research without their consent. Ablack patient will not walk into a hospital when he knows that he or she will not be given the right treatment just because the doctors there want to use his body or organs for medical research. This has eventually forced some people not to declare their serious illness as they assume their organs or bodies will be misused (Rodman, p.67). Due to such created belief in black patients, many have been registered dead without declaring the illnesses they were suffering from. Furthermore, there should be continued denouncement of the acts of doctors to make use of black patient's organs or body for medical research without appropriate consent because there will be false diagnosis of patients. For intended reasons that will never be known to patients and their family members, a medical personnel will diagnose the patient with illnesses when infect the person is not sick. Even if the person is sick, he or she will not be suffering from a disease that calls for his or her body or organs to be used for medical researchers. White 

                                                                                                                                            5
counterparts are highly protected by law and sometimes have legally backed in case the doctors wrongly diagnose him or her with a wrong disease. Due to this legal backing, white patients have not been victims of false disease diagnosis. However, blacks are constantly being disguised with false serious diseases that make the patient and family members of the patient to believe that the patient will not get better at any time in life. Doctors use these techniques to increasingly make different medical researchers on patient presumed to be too sick to survive death. It is from this argument that we call upon immediate end of carrying out medical research on black patients without obtaining appropriate consent. Doctors are using this loophole to diagnose black patient with diseases that they are not suffering from.
Such acts of using organs or bodies of black patients without appropriate consent will for decades set off grief to family members and some time to the patient him or herself. Both patients and family members expect to enjoy unlimited joy for the rest of their life when their patient is from a successful hospital treatment. However, all this is lost from the fact that the patient they take to the hospital are subjected to medical researchers without their consent or some of his or her organs are used for medical research without their permission (Gold, p.20). No one in life can ever feel happy for the rest of his or her life upon knowing that part of his or her body was used for medical research without his or her consent. He or she will eventually hate the entire health system and sometimes fail to seek medical attention for the rest of their life due 

                                                                                                                                     6
to created fear. For the case of family members, this can be a great loss and atrocity that they will have to live within their unhappy life for years hence calling for the end of the use of black patient organs for medical research without attaint patient or family appropriate consent. "such a simple act by Dr. Elide of collected parts from Henrietta's cervix set off decades of grief for the Lacks family" (Rebecca, 33). Sometimes the medical research conducted to patients or on their organs result into other unexpected or sometimes expected disabilities, complications, injuries or disease to patients which are never told to them prior. Continued procedural of caring out medical research on black patients should be ended because the patients are not given the right to make choices with respect to resultant effects (Rebecca, p.89). Black patients or their family would have the right to make their choice upon being told the possible side effect of the medical research that is about to be performed. Some medical research results in infertility of the patients like the case of Henrietta. “As the treatment was coming to an end, Henrietta asked if she would be able to give birth again. Up until then, Henrietta did not know that the treatment had left her infertile" (Rebecca, p. 67). This was expected but the doctor never thought the consent of the Henrietta or her family members. This was unethical and against the medical professional practices. Some of the after medical research study shows that injuries, disability and complications are experienced by patients. However, the patient would have made a choice if he or she had been informed either to stay with the current disease or suffer the risk of after treatment effects.

                                                                                                                                      7
There are other indirect or extra costs that the black patient was not willing or ready to incur that are brought by the doctors performing medical research on black patient's bodies or organs without any informed appropriate consent. As noted above, the medical research conducted by the doctors without patients consent eventually lead to sometimes other complications like injuries and permanent or temporally disabilities. All these resulting effects call for unintended or unbudgeted expenditures (Gold, p.24). This is in form of staying admitted to hospitals which calls for extra payment in terms of paying hospital costa which would not have been incurred. Because of selfish reasons by the doctors to discover the medical treatments that are very important in medical treatment, this brings unplanned costs to the patients who were involved in the research. Doctors are seen not offering any kind of material or financial help to black victims after they have performed the medical research without their consent. Patient rot and die in their homes due to the after medical research activities that created extra harm than good. They spend a lot of money in buying drugs and paying medical personnel to treat wounds, injuries and disabilities that came without their consent. This is not only bad for the health safety of the patient but negatively affecting financial sustainability of the patients and family at large.          
Though for ages doctors have carried out medical research on bodies and organs of black patients to invent important medical discoveries without appropriate informed consent this has been and will always be wrong and illegal. The discovery of HeLa cell line through the use of Henrietta Lacks' body’s and organs without seeking appropriate consent was very important to the world in relation to cancer treatment. However, this has for the generation been used as an excuse and resulted in other intolerants side effects and misconduct or unethical practice by medical professionals. Failure to seek black patient's informed consent with an intent of making landmark medical discoveries have resulted in patients being left to dies to attain this goal. Patients and family member are incurring huge expenditure in the treatment of disabilities, injuries, and emotional stress brought about by acts of doctors without any form of appropriate consent. Such unethical medical personnel practices are not only a burden to the state but also a burden to the patients and family members at large hence calling for the immediate end of such unethical behavior. 















 
                                                                                                                                   8 
Works cited
Rebecca. “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks”. New York City: Random House (2010). Retrieved on May 7th, 2018 from https://www.shmoop.com/the-immortal-life-of-henrietta-lacks/quotes.html.
Gold, Michael. A Conspiracy of Cells: One Woman's Immortal Legacy-And the Medical Scandal It Caused. SUNY Press (2000). p. 20.
Rodman, Nicole "Honoring the legacy of Henrietta Lacks". The Dundalk Eagle (2016).
Simillis C.  Do we need to change the legislation to a system of presumed consent to address organ shortage?  Med Sci Law (2010). 50(2): 84-94.