Patients being used for medical research without approval



	Doctors in the medical field have been using patients has research projects for years, some without permission from their patients, especially their colored patients. Some believe it should not be a big deal for doctors or nurses to take that action, but it can cause a huge issue. Patients being used for medical research without their acceptance is inappropriate because it is an invasion of privacy, it is against the law, and it is inhumanly.

Medical professionals invade the privacy of their patients. Often cases are because they feel as though their patients are worthless and they can do what they please. I talked with a medical doctor and she states, “Its unbelieve how some of my co-worker’s act when a trauma comes in, they get so excited about someone else injuries and tells everybody they can about it.” She proceeds to say, “As a doctor, you should have respect for your patient, not everything needs to be told.” This corresponds with the HIPPA Law which plays an important role in human privacy rights. It allows people to have rights over their personal health information. This law hasn’t been around long, it was enacted in 1996. Invading a person’s privacy can give them the right to bring a lawsuit against another that intruded.

Similarly, during this process lawbreaking is an issue. Nurses, doctors, even hospitals can be sued for the act of being untrustworthy. In the long run, it can verbally, emotional and possibly physical hurt the patient that the doctors are testing on. Goffe expresses that the US government are also in with medical professionals to test on African Americans, even without their consent. Goffe brings up a man that talked about his experience of being mistreated by doctors, “African-American Ebb Cade was secretly injected with plutonium, the substance used to make nuclear bombs.” Some in the medical community think so less of colored people or people that is not of their skin complexion. They believe that they’re better and smarter than ones of color because we were not as educated as they were.

In addition, this act is cruel to the patient being brought into the performance being treated to them.

	Over the years, many groups have argued that doctors need permission, and some say they don’t need a reason to have consent about taking their own patient parts. Opponents of this reveal some different arguments. They highlight that there have been times where it can help others in need of treatment for their diagnoses and having a lot of different specimens from different people can be hard to get because some doesn’t want to be testing subjects. It being, they can develop new treatments for people with different diseases is amazing and one can agree on that being beneficial. 

However, these views can easily be refuted. One fails to realize individuals are entitled to have a say in what others are going to be doing with their bodies. It can help others in the long run but misusing a person can possibly cause damage to one, especially when they don’t get recognition for their specimen being used. For example, Henrietta Lacks, the doctors and nurses were taking her cells without her permission nor her families. Therefore, it is inappropriate to think because it is one’s patient and one is at high authority, they can do whatever they want with it and use them as medical objects.

In conclusion, using patients for any kind of medical research without appropriate consent is unprofessional and it is inhumanly towards human rights and law. If one is caught in the action of abusing a patient body for their own research with the patient being aware should be punished. Having ownership on ones own body is a right and nobody she tell someone what to do with it.