Neat People vs. Sloppy People 

In this world you have two types of people, I’m not talking about males and females, I’m talking about neat people and sloppy people. When you think of a sloppy person what do you think of? Do you think a sloppy person is someone that doesn’t care about anything or anyone, or do you think their someone who cares too much about stuff they should? What about neat people, are they a person who cares to much or cares too little. In the discussion of neat vs. sloppy people, sloppy people care more about people and things even though its best to seem like a neat person.

Sloppy people value everyone no matter how unimportant they may seem to other people because friends are beneficial to them. I value all my friends because they all have different resources that could benefit you for instance, one of your friends could be really close to the boss at the job that your trying to obtain. They’re also beneficial to you since you never know when their success could lead to your success. For example, whenever you see someone let’s say a music artist perform, most of the time you see his homeboys (friends) on stage with them. On the other hand, you have neat people who loves to be organized and tidy, so hearing that you would think that they didn’t have all that many friends. If you said that your right, neat people don’t just have friends, they have best friends. I said that because neat people like to have their circle tight with only the people they truly care about and trust, others would just be considered as people they know.

Moreover, sloppy people find uses for things that may seem like there useless. For instance, I find things like old papers and assignments to be important because you never know what could happen next year that you may need it again. Old papers such as math guides where it tells you how to calculate positive and negative numbers or assignments that has your old resumes, so you can critique it in the future. However neat people keeps nothing that they have no use for. After every school year my sister would throw out everything in her notebook and binder not looking for thing that might be useful in the future. She would even throw her binder that has a few tears in it away. In the end neat people spend lots of money throwing thing away that could be used again. 

In addition, being a sloppy person won’t look good to everyone because it has the stereotype that being sloppy means your probably a dirty person. I can remember when I was younger my mom would always tell me to clean my room because it looked messy to her. She told me that because if someone was to come to the house and come in to my room the first thing they would see is the mess on my side of the room. First impressions really mattered so in the end I had to clean it and organize my room. Despite being sloppy, neat people come off as organized and prepared since everything in their possession is neat and tidy. Its important to look neat because when an employer wants to hire you and they see that you’re a messy person it could affect their decision dramatically. Plus, one would need to adjust in there working environment and the only way to do that is if you already have your stuff together.

To some up this this discussion of neat vs. sloppy people, sloppy people care more about people and things even though its best to seem like a neat person. So, next time you see a sloppy person and you think they just don’t care about anything just remember that that may not be the case. The case may be that they just care about the thing a little more then there supposed to. Furthermore the neatest person you see could be the person that does really care for much. 



