Cell Stealing



    From reading the book titled “The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks”, the most frequently asked question is probably are there more individuals with an illness whose doctors unknowingly used the cells for research without their consent. Cell stealing is equivalent to stealing from a store, and doctors should be punished. Researching will help find other individuals who have went through similar situations as Ms. Lacks, their actual story, and exactly why what these doctors did is wrong.  

    Although “HeLa” cells have been very helpful to society, that doesn’t make Henrietta’s doctor or any doctor right for what they are doing. Research shows that Ms. Lacks wasn’t the only person who this has happened to. A man by the name of John Moore had a very similar experience to Henrietta’s story. Mr. Moore was diagnosed with hairy cell leukemia in 1976. He then was referred to Dr. David Golde, who removed his spleen that was swollen because of his illness.  During the process, Mr. Moore had suspected that Dr. David was keeping information from him; he may had been right. Mr. Moore later found out that Dr. David had developed cells that he called “Mo”, he said that Moore’s cells had “unique” qualities. This is just one example of doctors unknowingly stealing patient’s cells. 

    Ted Slavin, a man who had been receiving infected blood transfusions to treat his hemophilia. His doctor, Baruch S. Blumberg convinced him that his blood would be valuable because of the number of antibodies for Hepatitis B. Mr. Slavin decided to sale his blood and also donate his blood to his doctor’s researchers. Although Ted Slavin’s situation is a lot different this is just another example of doctors using patient’s cells to test and research information for medical advancement. The only difference between Slavin and Lacks is that Slavins doctor encouraged him to use his blood instead of stealing it from him, but Dr. Blumberg may have had the same intentions as Lacks doctor had Slavin not agreed to allow researchers to use his blood. 

    By doing such a thing to patients while ill, probably makes them feel upset and as if they have no one they can trust; not even their doctors. In some ways these doctors may feel as though they have good intentions because of how many people each person’s cells have helped in our society but stealing cells from an ill patient isn’t fair and is a cruel thing to do to someone who is fighting for their life. Stealing a patient’s cells is equivalent to stealing from a store, it’s a crime and doctors should be punished for doing such a thing to patients. Going back to “The Immortal life of Henrietta Lacks” book, Ms. Lacks family had no knowledge of what Henrietta’s doctor had did. Henrietta’s family were fairly poor and hardly had any income, but the HeLa cells had been helping people everywhere and Lacks doctor had made a great amount of money from stealing her cells.

    Opponents of these views present several arguments being that these doctors knew how important each person’s cells were. These doctors knew that these patient’s cells could be useful to not just them, but to science which is why they probably didn’t think about what they were actually doing and what it meant. Dr. Gey realized how important Henrietta’s cells could be to society, he distributed the cells to different labs and companies for the betterment of science and research. He did this with no interest of making a profit. 

    Contributing to science history, helping other patients around the world, etc. are all probably things these doctors would say to try and justify what they have done. Which still doesn’t make it right because these doctors still committed a crime and stole something so valuable from these patients without them being aware. As a doctor, your job is to do everything possible to keep patients healthy and encouraged that their situation will improve; but instead these doctors chose to go behind their patients backs and take something that did not belong to them. Being able to trust your doctor is very important and these doctors may have lost trust from these patients and their families. 

    In conclusion, I think that what happened to Ms. Lacks was very wrong, but what’s worse is all of the financial gain that Ms. Lacks doctor achieved, while her family struggled. No one should ever have their cells used for experiments without their knowledge or their approval. I understand the good that came from what her doctor did, but the fact remains that no one had her permission or her family’s permission to use her cells. Research allowed me to go in further detail about what occurred with both patients, Ms. Lacks and Mr. Moore. Henrietta isn’t the only person who this has happened to and regardless of any intentions these doctors had, it still wasn’t right. I strongly believe that there are still doctors today who steal from their patients, and they should be punished and never trusted again. 







Work Cited



“Helatermproject.blogspot.com Traffic Statistics.” Alexa Internet, www.alexa.com/siteinfo/helatermproject.blogspot.com.







“Home » Hepatitis B Foundation.” Hepatitis B Foundation | Baruch S. Blumberg Institute, www.hepb.org/.





“Charles Drew.” Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 19 Jan. 2018, www.biography.com/people/charles-drew-9279094.







