The Sorrow of Henrietta Lacks 

	Who is this famous Henrietta Lacks? Henrietta Lacks was an African American women who went to the hospital when she discovered she had abnormal pain and bleeding in abdomen; she ended up being diagnosed with cervical cancer. Henrietta ended up signing a consent form; the doctor who is named Dr. George Gey removed a healthy and a cancerous tissue from her body. Ms Lacks experienced childhood with a tobacco cultivate and only had a six-grade education. She was dark in an isolated city. She had no genuine options about her care in view of this unique circumstance, and the doctors of that time were not prone to have endeavored to relieve that—it was not some portion of their way of life. Later on, she ended up dying at the age of thirty two and her cells got taken from her. Henrietta did not give consent for the doctor to take her cells, but the doctor took it anyways. Her gynecologist Dr. Howard Jones ended up giving her cells to get researched, but come to find out her cells made history because they are unique. What makes her cells unique is that “they became the first immortal human cells ever grown in a laboratory” (Skloot 4). Nobody ended up benefiting from this discovery besides the doctors. The procedure Henrietta Lacks had was unethical because the family did not receive any type of benefits, the doctor did not receive any consent, and the doctors took all the credit for the discovery. 

	



First, Henrietta Lacks family was disappointed in how the doctor did not reach out to them. The family did not receive any benefits for giving information to the doctors about 

Henrietta. The doctor asked for the families sample of blood, but the family did not know it was going to the research of the Hela cells. This made the doctor actions unethical because he tricked the family into giving the doctor blood. The family wants compensation from Johns Hopkins University and the doctors because of they the lies and manipulation the doctors said and did to them. Doctors should have been more considerate and helped the family out with some type of positive benefit from the situation. 

	Secondly, due to Henrietta’s poor learning and knowledge she had; it was unlawful for the doctors to go through with the procedure. For example, “She didn’t read or write much, and she hadn’t studied science in school” (Skloot 16). This shows that Henrietta does not have to proper school knowledge to consent to a major procedure getting done to her. The doctors should 

have known by the way she talked that they should have told her about the cervical cancer biopsy procedure in a more simpler and detailed way. The Henrietta procedure was done unlawfully due to the doctors actions and misinterpretation. 

	Third, Dr. Gey took all the credit when they found out how important and life changing the Hela cells were. “Researches around the world were working to develop a vaccine for Hepatitis B, and doing so required a steady supply of antibodies like Salvin’s, which pharmaceutical companies were willing to pay large sums for” (Skloot 202). Doctors realized that they can make a lot of money by finding different types of cures and treatments because no one else had found any. Dr. Gey did not even thank the family for the valuable information they 



had gave them; instead they kept the money to themselves. The doctors wanted all the fame and shine to go onto themselves; considering Henrietta had the first immortal cells. 

However, it is true that the Henrietta Lacks procedure is unethical, but I argue that some people may believe that the procedure Henrietta Lacks had was ethical and the doctors did nothing wrong. Lacks cells helped “develop drugs for treating herpes, leukemia, influenza, hemophilia, and Parkinson's disease…” (Skloot 4). If the doctors never took Henrietta’s cells they would have never discovered treatments to many diseases. The doctors was able to help many sick patients and their founding of treatment progressively got better. Henrietta cells made an positive impact on the world till this day due to the discovery of cures and treatments doctors had found.

Although, the criticism listed above is a valid one; at the same time it is important to realize what the doctors did to Henrietta Lacks was immoral and deplorable. Even though Henrietta did sign the consent paper, it was still unlawful for the doctors because of her level of comprehension. One would think that a doctor could realize whether or not a person fully understands a important consent form, correct? If Henrietta’s family was aware of what was going on earlier, Henrietta cells would have never made history. The doctors prove that their actions was not the best choice.

Thus, Henrietta Lacks will always be remembered due to the doctors unlawful action. Without the doctors nobody would have knew about Henrietta Lacks and the significance she has with her name. The doctors made the procedure unlawful by not knowing her school skill level,  the family not receiving anything, and the doctors making it seem like they did all the work.

	

Henrietta Lacks will always be remembered in a memorable way due to her strong and long-lasting cells.   









































Works Cited

“'Henrietta Lacks': A Donor's Immortal Legacy.” Henrietta Lacks A Donor's Immortal Legacy , 

NPR, 2 Feb. 2010, . 

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

Skloot, Rebecca. “Rebecca Skloot Journalist, Teacher, Author of The Immortal Life of Henrietta 

Lacks.” Rebecca Skloot The Immortal Life Comments, N.D., 2010, rebeccaskloot.com/the-immortal-life/. 



























 







