


                             







       When love occurs, it is healthy. Love does not tear you up inside. Love, does not ask or even want you to change. But, if you change, Love is excited about this change as you are, if not more so. Many people remain in abusive relationships for the same reason, they remain in loving ones: they have built a life together, they have children, and financial interests. Abuse is a “spectrum” ranging from physical abuse to controlling because it consists of things such as verbal abuse, emotional abuse, and physical abuse.

      First, verbal abuse is maintaining control and power over someone. A harmful type of verbal abuse that usually occurs unnoticed is name calling. Everyone jokes around and teases their family and friends. It is the same in a relationship. However, there is a difference between being playful and being rude. A red flag in a relationship is name calling. For example, negative names such as dumb, ugly, fat, or stupid. Although, name shaming is a horrible way to harm someone, putting someone down, making them feel guilty, or embarrassing and humiliating them is as well. Another form of verbal abuse, is discounting. An attempt to deny that the victim of the abuse has any right to his or her thoughts or feelings. For instance, the abuser may tell the victim on a regular basis that he or she is too sensitive, too childish, and has no sense of humor.

        Second, emotional abuse can cause low-self esteem. Emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s own purpose. An individual usually stays in an abusive relationship hoping that their abuser will change. Abusers can cause low-self esteem. For example, if one possess a talent and comfort with a particular ability and his/her abusive partner is resentful, abuse might arrive in the form of subtraction: no remark at all, not a compliment or a gesture of support. In addition to emotional abuse causing low-self esteem, it can also cause fear. Being afraid of what will happen if one decides to leave the relationship is not healthy. For instance, if one feels as if he/she has to walk on eggshells around his/her partner or constantly watch what one says or does chances are the relationship is unhealthy. 

    Third, physical abuse in a relationship often starts with a push, or a slap, and then progressively becomes worse over time. For instance, types of physical abuse are pushing, shoving, slapping, kicking, throwing things, and using weapons. After physical violence, there is usually apologizing and blaming starts to occur. After abuse, the abuser will often blame someone else, such as the victim for saying or doing something that “caused” their violent behavior. Also, the abuser might even say their behavior was a result of being under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or feelings stressed or frustrated. 

          In conclusion, abuse is a “spectrum” ranging from physical abuse to controlling because it consists of things such as verbal abuse, emotional abuse, and physical abuse. Verbal abuse is maintaining control and power over someone. A harmful type of verbal abuse that usually occurs unnoticed is name calling. Emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s purpose. Emotional abuse can eventually lead to low-self esteem. Last, physical abuse in a relationship usually starts with a push,or a slap, and then progressively becomes worse over time.  Abuse can be difficult to detect when it is directly happening to a person. A person can be in an abusive relationship and unaware. 



     