 Do laptops get the job done?





Technology is advancing as we know it. More and more information is gravitating to the web for easier access to everyone throughout the world. Schools are beginning to include technology in their curriculums, which in return builds skills for online use. One of the key devices utilized in the school environment is a laptop, and the reason for this is because they bring numerous tools which allow students to advance their education. Laptops are an exceptional educational tool that allows students to access research promptly, create sufficient storage, and improve the review process with their professors/teachers.

Researching information used to be a hassle compared to now. The accessibilities that laptops provide allow for easier and faster access to data for just about anything. Nowadays, we like everything to be instant. Our time is so precious to us that it causes us to be lazy, which is why laptops are a great portable learning device for those who are slothful towards getting up and going to the library. The strain of carrying around a bunch books day to day for classes has decreased because of laptops. Laptops allow students to research historical figures all at the touch of a scroll. Rather than taking 3 or 4 different books out to gather information about someone, we're afforded the ability to search up a biography about the person and find all the information we need on that one page.      





The easy access to research isn't the only way laptops can be seen as an educational tool, laptops also create sufficient storage and allow for storing immense volumes of information. We're able to store just about anything, from files to videos, and much more. Documentation and PDF's are immediately available through simply typing in your saved file name and opening it.

Completing the review process with your teachers/professors can be time-consuming. Before laptops or desktops were a thing, receiving your constructive criticism or analysis from your teacher would all have to be done in the same place at the same time. However, because we now have laptops, it allows for students and professors to pleasantly review work and critic all in the space of their home, or anywhere they can access the internet. Advantages such as this one allow for students to receive their work back the same day with a greater sufficiency in time. Handwritten notes or tasks can be easily misplaced intentionally or accidentally.  Laptops prevent this from happening by giving the note or task a place of storage so it can be found anytime it’s needed.  

Overall, Laptops are an excellent educational tool. The perks that come with a laptop allow for ultimate multitasking, while also being very prolific. Devices such as these enable students to access research promptly, create sufficient storage, and improve the review process with their professors/teachers. Schools and other institution should continue to implement laptops in their curriculum because of the many excellent resources they bring with them.

 																											  



        