How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not

On average, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the U.S. During one year, this equates to more than 10 million women and men (ncadv.org/statistics). On a typical day, there are more than 20,000 phone calls placed to domestic violence hotlines nationwide. 1 in 3 women and 1 in 4 men have been victims of some form of physical violence by an intimate partner in their lifetime (ncadv.org/statistics). In the reading “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” by Augusten Burroughs describes love, shows signs that a relationship is abusive, and provides reasons why people stay in these relationships. 

The author describes love; he starts the reading by simply stating everything love is not. “Love doesn’t use a fist. Love never calls you fat or lazy or ugly…” (Burroughs 470).  If a person loves his or her partner he or she should believe in them, motivate them, and be patient with them. Many individuals do not recognize when he or she is in an abusive relationship. Most victims become accustom to the abuse. Manipulation and controlling behavior are the main things a person should look out for. Someone who is manipulative and/or controlling gain power when he or she is able to detect the weaknesses of his or her partner.

Burroughs identifies signs that a relationship is abusive. There are many types of abuse other than physical abuse. Physical abuse is any intentional act causing injury or trauma to another person. Examples of physical abuse are shoving, slapping, choking, and hitting. Another form of abuse is emotional abuse. Emotional abuse is the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s own purpose. Examples of emotional abuse are humiliating, yelling, threats, and isolating.

Burroughs gives some reasons why people tend to stay in these abusive relationships. “People remain in abusive relationships for the same reasons they remain in loving ones: they’ve built a life together, they have children, financial interests, habit, nothing better.” (Burroughs 472). For example, in situations where children are involved it is crucial that he or she leaves immediately. There can be multiple people effected. The most common reason for staying in an abusive relationship is because people do not know when they’re in one. Most times the obvious signs of abuse are ignored because a person thinks that their partner will change. Truth is they will never change.

In the reading “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” readers’ are able to learn from the authors advice on how someone should be loved, when to let go of an abusive relationship, and how to seek help in order to remove oneself from a controlling and manipulative situation. There are many misconceptions of the true meaning of love. No one should have to deal with the effects of physical abuse or emotional abuse. Furthermore, it is important for people to get help from professionals to get out of these toxic relationships. There are resources, such as The National Domestic Violence Hotline and Domestic Violence Organizations. Remember love should not hurt. 





Works Cited Page

“National Statistics.” National Coalition Against Domestic Violence

.

Burroughs, Augusten. How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not. The Bedford Reader Thirteenth Edition.

