A Longer Spectrum

	From a tap on the arm or a pat on the butt to a slap to the face or a punch in the gut, did you know that depending on the context that these can all be forms of abuse? Abuse is defined as treating a person with cruelty or violence, especially regularly or repeatedly. Even though the word cruelty is used in this definition, most people still seem to think that abuse is mostly if not only physical. That though is simply not the case. Despite societal belief, the definition and act of abuse exist on a spectrum. The spectrum passes through many levels but, has three main points. The three main points are physical debasement, emotional manipulation, and psychological manipulation.

First let’s talk about the first and most widely known point on the spectrum, physical debasement. Debasement means to owner someone or somethings character to bring down the value of. So the victim may believe that they aren’t good enough, worthy, or even worse that they deserve this. This can leave the victim open to more abuse. While physical abuse may include beatings, bruises, or other proofs of assault, it can also cause hypertension, arthritis, poor weight gain, and miscarriage.

	Next point on the spectrum, emotional manipulation or emotional abuse. Burroughs talks about how emotional abuse is usually seen as name calling or teasing but, an emotionally abusive person won’t always resort to words. Some other examples of non-verbal emotional abuse are taking something of importance away from someone for no other except to see them upset or cry, showing affection to a significant other then randomly ignoring them, isolating them, or intentionally excluding them from important events.

	Finally our last point on the abuse spectrum is, psychological manipulation. Psychological manipulation can be just as bad as physical abuse. Examples of psychological abuse are excessive backhanded “compliments”, constant disrespectful comments on their body or personality, and the rejection or illegitimization of their beliefs and opinions. This form of abuse, especially, has a big effect on your emotions and inner self thoughts. This can cause a lot of the victims to think that the abuse is all their fault.

	While physical abuse a terrible thing, we shouldn’t ignore the other forms of abuse on the spectrum. Emotional and psychological abuse are just as influential and have just as many consequences.