Reflection	The second part of this english course has focused on rhetoric, and the ability to analyze a texts meaning in detail. We reviewed proper use of reading and writing strategies, language use, and how to write purposely. Covering these topics proved to be very beneficial when I needed to produce high level pieces of writing for my other classes this semester. My writing strategies are not perfect, but have greatly improved since the start of college english. Specifically in this second semester our focus improved my knowledge on how rhetoric can be used to persuade and manipulate. I touch more on this topic throughout my essay 1 and use the new and old strategies we learned effectively. All of the techniques we covered are used throughout my first English 5b essay, “The Greater Influence”.

	A necessary revision that I had to adjust to was standard rhetorical description. I started off with very little skills when it came to writing detail for visuals. The multiple exercises we worked on made analyzing my text for the portfolio much easier. I was tasked with describing a one minute and forty second video that was sporadic and hard to follow. After many attempts the result was a description that allows the reader to follow without ever seeing the video for themselves. Here is the rhetorical analysis from my essay The Greater Influence, 

This text starts off with a young man in a adidas tracksuit kicking over an old tv, tieing his new adidas shoe, and stepping over the set repeatedly on a loop. Then moves up to a clip of many teens who are all wearing multi colored adidas shirts as well as the classic black and white shoe, while continuously walking to the right. Next they all move up by stepping on trophies, and that transitions into the skateboarding clip. Here three guys perform flip tricks in their adidas sport shoe and t-shirts. Following this clip comes the rapper PlayBoi Carti’s introduction where he flaunts his jewelry, designer clothes, and adidas original rebooted shoe. Then the video moves up to Lohan the singers clip and he is seen in the custom adidas throwback windbreaker and mesh streetwear shoe walking to the right. Following that a transition up to asap Ferg occurs where he is seen wearing an adidas windbreaker and diamond cuban link bracelet while unveiling a box of adidas shoes. After Ferg’s clip the ad proceeds to collage many teens wearing adidas new line of clothes and shoes while fluidly moving to the right the entire time.

 My objective description flows well and provides background for my point of view. The purpose of a long description like this one is to give the reader insight. In the past my mistake was giving a short analysis which often left my reader guessing. I've corrected my mistake and have started to see a major difference in the effectiveness of my writing.

	Past writing strategies are still relevant and are used throughout my first english 5b essay. They say-I say, quoting format, and language keep my paper at the level it needs to be. A great example of proper format for they say-I say and quotation can be seen in my portfolio essay here,

The Effect of Celebrities in Advertisement Tina Amo writes, “A celebrity who appears sincere can lend credibility to a product. Consumers are more likely to believe the statements the personality makes in the ad and view the product and the brand positively. Conversely, regard for the brand becomes negative if it is obvious that the celebrity does not share the company’s values”(Amo. par1). Her point being that if a famous spokespersons views are aligned with a company, it will sell more goods.

 Here I used a block quote which Is introduced and concluded with an explanation. Not only is there proper format, I also make it clear when I am speaking versus when the author is. These old strategies are not obsolete and continue to make my papers better. The new strategy language also takes a toll on my writing. At the start of the semester a struggle of mine was making my sentences and paragraphs coherent. I knew what I wanted to say but it wouldn't make any sense when I typed it out. The rhetoric exercises helped to combat this and add unity to my progression of ideas. This new understanding of cohernace that I gained is visible all throughout my first essay “The Greater Influence”. 

	All the information and knowledge that I gained this semester and even my first semester of english will stay with me. I now have a firm grasp of what a high level college essay consists of. I will continue to write with coherence, use basic strategies, and rhetorically analyze all text that needs to be broken down.  Every exercise i've done in class had a purpose. The lessons learned from them were simple yet effective in making me a better writer. At the halfway point of English 5b I feel as if i'm ready for an even greater challenge. I will continue to use the techniques from this class in all other academic writings that I will be faced with.

















The Greater Influence 

In almost all media you find a familiar face that causes you to remember. This is an appeal to credibility through media. A singer, rapper, actor, or billionaire who has a familiar face is without a doubt credible to the viewer. In, The Effect of Celebrities in Advertisement Tina Amo writes, “A celebrity who appears sincere can lend credibility to a product. Consumers are more likely to believe the statements the personality makes in the ad and view the product and the brand positively. Conversely, regard for the brand becomes negative if it is obvious that the celebrity does not share the company’s values”(Amo. par1). Her point being that if a famous spokespersons views are aligned with a company, it will sell more goods. Referring to popular culture it is common knowledge that brand name clothes and shoes make you seem important and essentially elite above everyone else. A prime example would be a corporation like Adidas that knows their viewers want to stand out. So as a response to their target demographic they create ads that make it seem like buying their shoes will set you apart from the crowd. For example the “Original is never finished” ad is manipulative and preys on peoples desire to be elite. 

Adidas marketing team created a one minute and forty second long video intended to make viewers feel like they were missing out. Throughout this ad famous rappers and singers are seen sporting the hottest clothes and newest adidas originals series shoes. The video has a constant and fluid motion in a rightward direction and is laid out in a very hectic manner. There are skateboarding clips, spotlights of the new shoes, and various transitions that lead the viewer into different stages of the ad where familiar celebrity faces are seen. The famous rappers in this text are draped in designer clothes and flashing off the Adidas brand shoes. The message received from the video is, “If you want to be cool and with the trends like the skateboarders, PlayBoi Carti, Ferg, and Lohan then buy our shoes”. Their concept of advertising works in a sense that people do buy their shoes, but is wrong because it promotes business at the cost of taking advantage of people's desires. This text goes deeper than it seems because kids, teens, and even adults look at this ad and are convinced that they should buy the shoe to maintain their status in society.

The idea behind the ad, “Original is never finished” is to attract a certain genre of people. Hip/hop and rap have a very wide array of fans, followers, and they run deep culturally. Adidas knows that they can manipulate people into buying their new shoe through the type of music and artists they enjoy. The idea that marketing is relatable is a scam. A company's entire purpose is to increase sales by any means. Their goal is to make you feel like you are apart of something greater by purchasing goods from them. Promoting loyalty is the best way for them to get ahead. Jim Tierney a daily news author for The Association for Customer Loyalty writes, 

thanks to Adidas, we have something known as “consumer-obsessed” that is a corporate mindset that paves the way toward brand loyalty. The momentum our brands are enjoying today is a direct consequence of our new consumer-obsessed mindset, which after the implementation of brand leadership, is not only fully reflected in our organizational structure, but it’s also clearly leaving its mark on our results (Tierney. par3)

Here he is explaining how companies like adidas are blatantly promoting loyalty which increases their sales. It doesn't sound like a bad thing but in actuality it is. Consumer obsessed marketing is the reason people dont mix NIKE and Adidas, or feel like they can't wear other sports brands and still be a member of the “elite society” created by companies. These corporations have figured out how to convince a person to not only purchase their merchandise, but also knowingly remain loyal to them without question. Manipulation on this great of a scale is consistently ignored by people who follow the newest trends no matter the price.

 It's become socially acceptable for a company to brand people and make them feel like they can only buy things from one supplier. They are feeding off the credibility given to them buy the celebrities used in their ads. This refers to the many artists seen in the “Original is Never Finished” ad. The video casts only young people who are all up to date with the latest adidas apparel. This text starts off with a young man in a adidas tracksuit kicking over an old tv, tieing his new adidas shoe, and stepping over the set repeatedly on a loop. Then moves up to a clip of many teens who are all wearing multi colored adidas shirts as well as the classic black and white shoe, while continuously walking to the right. Next they all move up by stepping on trophies, and that transitions into the skateboarding clip. Here three guys perform flip tricks in their adidas sport shoe and t-shirts. Following this clip comes the rapper PlayBoi Carti’s introduction where he flaunts his jewelry, designer clothes, and adidas original rebooted shoe. Then the video moves up to Lohan the singers clip and he is seen in the custom adidas throwback windbreaker and mesh streetwear shoe walking to the right. Following that a transition up to asap Ferg occurs where he is seen wearing an adidas windbreaker and diamond cuban link bracelet while unveiling a box of adidas shoes. After Ferg’s clip the ad proceeds to collage many teens wearing adidas new line of clothes and shoes while fluidly moving to the right the entire time.

The true function of this ad is to promote Adidas shoes and clothing. The main source of value for this brand comes from the many celebrities used for promotion. Why do we give celebrities so much power and influence over what we wear? Socially we have accepted it as a prominent way of determining value. By allowing this we give companies a grasp over us and instead of purchasing what you like, consumerism has become revolved around keeping up with trends. An ads goal is to convince the reader or viewer that their product is the best. In the adidas ad you see the Rapper PlayBoi Carti repeatedly wearing very expensive clothing and sporting the newest original adidas shoe. The elements in this ad propose multiple ideas. The main being that adidas displays wealth. People should let themselves decide what they like and not allow a brand to set the expensive trends to follow.

It’s not unusual for the masses of people to purchase things because they've seen a celebrity endorse it in the media. This relates to the credibility and awareness celebrities bring to marketing. Put simply credibility is a person or source that makes the viewer believe in what is being sold through a connection in beliefs or like minded statements. This power over people provided by celebrities causes a boom in revenue for the company and lack of control for consumers. Some will say that the people have free will in deciding whether or not to purchase things. I concede that is a true statement, but I refuse to accept that people are in no way influenced by celebrities sporting all of the newest and designer clothes. This marketing strategy is taking over the social structures of today's society and it should be brought to an end. Tina Amo said, "Advertising that features a celebrity creates attention and generates awareness of the product. Fans who have faith in the celebrity are most likely to purchase a companies products or, at least, have a greater intention to buy them. The advertising also gains the attention of consumers with a casual interest in the celebrity”. This clarifies the fact that consumers are subjected to manipulation without their knowledge. In an almost subconscious manner big brands get people to remain loyal and spend large amounts of money on all of their products in an effort to set themselves apart.

	The issue with this video is that it doesn't try to persuade at all. As a whole it barely mentions what the purpose is. Adidas was trying to manipulate its viewers into believing that they should purchase their products off the grounds that they were endorsed by famous people. This tactic used by many big brands and corporations started in the 1970’s and is still going strong. If they won't stop then the people should be made aware that they are being taken advantage of.

It is evident that celebrities and popular artists make selling any product easier. They provide a source of credibility, bring awareness, and strengthen the reputation of a business or company. although those all seem like good things, it's morally wrong to prey on the average person's aspirations to be of higher status? When searching online it is very easy to find an ad with a popular celebrity endorsing sales. This may be good for the companies hard number, but it can be damaging for the viewers. People go into debt and max out credit cards just to make it seem like they are loyal consumers and caught up with trends. It's not the celebrities fault for signing with an ad to make money. Fault lies on the companies for setting up their ad in a way that makes their viewers feel as if they're missing out on something that will set them apart from the crowd. There are thousands of examples but to be specific the “Original is not finished” ad produced by Adidas with Ferg, playboi carti and Luhan represents everything wrong with advertising. The power these corporations have over people is overwhelming. People should decide not to let corporations have the greater influence in their lives. It is not okay for companies to influence their consumers in this way.





































Works Cited 

“Adidas Originals.” Original Is Never Finished, Adidas, 25 Jan. 2018, 



Tierney, Jim. Loyalty360. 10 May 2016, 

Sokolovska, Angela. “Impact of Celebrity Endorsement on Consumer Buying Behavior.” Guided Selling, 22 July 2017, 

Amo, Tina. “The Effect of Celebrities in Advertisements.” Chron.com, 



Cooper, Jennifer. “Brand Impact of Using Celebrities in Advertising.” BuyerSynthesis, 15 Sept. 2016, 













 



















































































