Shooting the Innocent         

	The number of people that were shot to death by police in the United States is more than in any other country in the world. Statistics shed light on the dark truth behind our police forces nationwide. A total of 1,133 people were fatally shot and killed between November 2017 and February 2018. 504 were white, 246 were black, 196 were hispanic, 187 were of unknown races (Statista 1). You would think in today's society it wouldn't be necessary to involve the race of the victims, but sadly it is. The fact of the matter is that we are killing far to many of our own citizens. Our law enforcements does their job in the sense that they fight the large and growing crime rate in America, but they refuse to acknowledge how many people they have wrongfully accused and killed. 

Stephon Clark a 22 year old African American man was fatally shot by Sacramento police officers in his grandmother’s backyard while unarmed. The officers released 20 shots hitting Mr. Clark 8 times. Three times in his lower back, twice near his right shoulder, once in his armpit, and once in his neck. It was stated by the Sacramento PD that Mr. Clark was a threat to the officers although he had committed no crime and had no weapon on him. In the graphic video they put out it was clear that multiple shots were fired without question and no paramedic help was offered for a total of 6 minutes leaving him to die on the ground slowly with no response to their orders. This raises significant question to the training of the U.S police force and lack of real effort they take to refrain from killing suspects. This occurred March 18th, 2018 making it one among many statistics of police shootings. Cases similar to this one are happening at an increasing rate and have become common news. 

American Police officers shoot and kill citizens on average 10 times more than all other countries. In his entry from the Article Police shootings and brutality in the U.S Lopez states that, “Police officers in the US shoot and kill hundreds of people each year, far more than other developed countries like the UK, Japan, and Germany, where police officers might go an entire year without killing more than a dozen people or even anyone at all”. This information does not include the fact that in America we hold the highest rate for homicides and crime. The U.S has a total of 6 homicides, italy has 2, Canada, The UK, and Sweden all have 1. This is a result of the U.S having access to more guns than other countries. More guns lead to more violence. Police finding themselves in an altercation have a firm understanding of the easy access to guns and this may affect their judgment in pulling the trigger on a civilian.

The issue of stereotyping also plays a part in the many shootings of minority men. Police have been proven to kill a disproportionate number of black men. In the U.S population 13% of black men were killed, 17% hispanic, 7% other and 63% white men were killed out of the total percentage of police shootings by race. The percentage of people killed who were unarmed and not attacking increases to 39% black, 12% hispanic, and 52% white (Lopez 2). This data shows how a large percentage of black men are accused and shot strictly because of stereotyping. Lopez puts it best when he says,

Deadly police encounters have drawn increased criticism over the past few years as cops have shot and killed unarmed or otherwise innocent black men and boys, highlighting the troubling racial disparities in how police use force. For critics of law enforcement, the disparities indicate that it's not just greater rates of gun ownership and violent crime that explain the higher number of police shootings in the US. Perhaps it's the lax legal standards that allow cops to justify deadly force against suspects who pose no danger, and sometimes are only perceived to pose a threat to officers because cops hold racial biases that are endemic in the criminal justice system (Lopez 1).

What he meant here is how an officer can claim self defense or say he/she was fearful for the public's safety and use that as an alibi for killing an innocent unarmed man of color. A study showed that subconscious racial bias was in fact occurring within the criminal justice system. Josh Correll, a University of Colorado Boulder psychology professor who conducted the research said, “The officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in . It's possible the bias could lead to more skewed outcomes in the field. We have some reason to believe that their training will be most likely to fail them” (Correll 2). This means that American officers train with stereotypical tendencies that carry out into the real world and result in unjust deaths of minorities.

I personally have been a victim of this racial stereotype. On my way back to my apartment one night I was pulled over. I had not broken any law, and was only driving two miles above the speed limit so I didn't know why I was being pulled over. I was very scared of what could happen because of the many shootings by police I’d seen in the news. The officer came to my window and pointed out the colorful car lights I had installed that come from under the seat. I felt relieved that was all, but he still insisted I get out and allow him to check my trunk. I got out of the car and followed his orders to turn in a full 360 with my hands up then proceeded to open the trunk. The officer then said I needed to take out or turn off the lights and said I was free to go. He profiled me and used the car lights as an excuse to search me and my car. I have this experience as a first hand account and proof that subconscious or conscious racial bias occurs in the police departments across the U.S Nation. I could have been another statistic among Stephon Clark and so many others who were unarmed and killed by the law.

	To combat the fatal shootings that have become a recurring problem california lawmakers announced a new legislation that was designed to make it easier to prosecute police officers who kill civilians. Shirley Weber the author of the bill explains it best when she says, “Under current law, police use of deadly force must be "objectively reasonable." My bill would make two key changes. It says officers could use deadly force only if it's necessary to prevent imminent and serious bodily injury or death, encouraging prosecutors to consider whether officers could have de escalated the situation with verbal warnings or used non lethal force beforehand. It also would allow prosecutors to take into account an officer's actions prior to a killing that could have negligently placed the officer in harm's way” (dillon Liam 1). This explanation of Weber’s bill is saying that officers must go through every viable option before shooting to kill and will be held accountable for the steps they took before the incident. If passed this will prevent the deaths of many people who find themselves in situations similar to Mr. Clark and give justice for the families who have suffered a loss by the hands of police.

Protest and tensions have continued to rise over the deaths of black men to police. People ban together to stop the shootings of unarmed men. As a society we are tasked with deciding how to go about handling these types of situations and find ways that won't end fatally for the accused victims as long as they are unarmed and pose no threat. Law enforcement is in effect to stop crime, not end the lives of people who appear to be in the wrong. Action must be taken to stop “Shooting the Innocent”.



	





































Works Cited

Dillon, Liam. “After Stephon Clark Shooting, California Lawmakers Push to Make It Easier to Prosecute Police Officers.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 3 Apr. 2018, 

Williams, Timothy. “Stephon Clark Was Shot 8 Times Primarily in His Back, Family-Ordered Autopsy Finds.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 2 Apr. 2018, 

“People Shot to Death by U.S. Police 2017-2018, by Race | Statistic.” Statista, 



Lopez. “American Police Shoot and Kill Far More People than Their Peers in Other Countries.” Vox, 17 
Nestel, M.l. “Shooting of Unarmed Black Man by Sacramento Police Sparks 5th Consecutive Day of Protests.” ABC News, ABC News Network, 31 Mar. 2018, 
