College vs. High School

	What’s new to me in the college environment? Academic writing. As new college students, we are expected to improve our style of expression in writing. College writing is all about one’s experience with the environment around them and the knowledge that students had already acquired before hand.

	In the chapter, “The Truth About High School English,” Milka Mustenikova Mosley claims that high school writing is formulaic and college writing is based on individuality. From experience, Mosley is right. High school writing was always based off five paragraph essays and rubrics. This was the easiest way for us high school students to organize our paragraphs and for the teachers to have a ready to grade paper. Because high school teachers hand out a certain structure for the essay, the students writing is always predictable - teachers already know what to expect. Mosley helped me realize what us high school students did wrong with our writings. Mosley states “they will look up some synonyms and try to incorporate new vocabulary into their essays, but oftentimes these words do not work well within the context of their essays.” Thinking back on my high school papers, I did the exact same thing; only, I wasn’t sure whether it ever made sense or not. However, high school teachers did take their time to talk to students if there was a lack of understanding. Teachers want students to try their best and be more detailed in their writings to prepare them for the college world.

	On the other hand, college teachers expect more from us college students, it’s more challenging and requires more critical thinking. In the book, “They Say, I Say,” Gerald Graff and Cathy Birkenstein claim, “critical thinking and writing go deeper than any set of linguistic formulas, requiring that you question assumptions, develop strong claims, offer supporting reasons and claims, consider opposing arguments, and so on.” When writing an essay, we college students need to be sure that our claims are clear and that we have the right evidence to support our claims. In this case, if our claims and evidence don’t really match, it shows a lack of understandment.  College students need to figure out how they want to interpret information into their essays and how they want to organize that information with their own ideas. This helps our essay make more sense. College teachers want to be sure that we have a full understanding about a subject to know how much and what they can teach to their students.

Also, students need to keep in mind who they intend their audience to be when writing. Keeping an audience in mind helps the writer understand how much in depth they can go about their topic and how much they can express from their own point of view. Academic writing in college is making sure that we college students sound well informed and cedible on a topic. Like Graff and Birkenstein claim, it’s important to consider the opposing side as well, it shows you have a better understanding.

Just as Mosley listed, college students are required to do, “lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, and essay questions based on different sources of information and specific professional models.” Unlike high school, college has many styles of academic writing. Students can approach writings by summarizing, defining, classifying, compare and contrast, analyzing, arguing, and synthesizing. Not to forget, academic writing needs structure, context and development. This all just depends on what courses the students are taking and how the professor wants us to approach a topic. Writings can be informative or persuasive and not only can writings be academic but also personal and public.

	