The Frontier Post is a online website that shares news about sports, politics and business to 

their audience. The website consists of young journalist from all over the country who promote 

advertisement they make. On one of there advertisements, Frontier illustrated the importance of 

driving safe. In this advertisement there was a picture of car keys in a shape of a gun. In the 

advertisement there is no label of cars nor a picture of a actual car, the ad is made to express the 

importance of driving. The message and purpose of this advertisement is to try and convince 

individuals to always drive safe because a lot of things could happen while driving. Car accidents 

are a common thing in the United States and are caused by human error or drunk drivers. I think, 

The Frontier Post made this advertisement to really impact individuals and open their eyes about 

the issues with driving. The advertisement is able to impact individuals by using powerful slogans and imaginary to get there attention.  

Frontier Point made there advertisement really is eye catching, they did this by using a optical illusion this made the audience stare at the advertisement more than once. When you first see the ad you see a gun but when you look at it again you see that the gun is made of a set of keys. On the bottom of the keys is a quote stated “Takes one life every 25 seconds” and “ Drive Safe” under that. In the bottom of the image the statistic “Takes one life every 25 seconds” deals with all the accidents that occurs with automobiles. The advertisement has a dominant impression of dark and mysterious making it really easy to catch the attention of the audience. The colors gives a sense of danger for the audience.“The advertisement utilizes the car keys to look in a shape of a gun to show the reader how driving under the influence and texting could result in the same fatal result of a gun. Many people don’t take driving seriously as holding a gun and that is why many lives are taken because of texting and driving and DUIs every year. This advertisement changes that mindset by making people aware that the two completely different things can cause as many deaths as each other” (Frank Minamino). Such as driving and guns many people are clueless or carefree about the situation and this advertisement helps bring awareness. The audience of the advertisement is the public, but the drivers are the main focus. The ad wants individuals to be careful when it comes to driving. The advertising informs you that diving with precaution and not under the influence of alcohol is a message that should be spread.  

The Frontier Point advertisement applied techniques like logos and pathos. The ad used a 

combination of logos and pathos. The statistics “Take one life every 25 seconds” in bold black letters stand out from the whole advertisement. This statement has a lot of meaning and gets the audience thinking about the lives taken away by bad drivers. When you think of the color black it represents death, in the advertisement the author wants the audience to think of death when they read the quote “Take one life every 25 seconds.”  Many people die because of drivers easy mistakes or drunk driving however with the keys in a shape of a “gun” it let’s the individuals think about the deaths dealing with gun violence. The advertisement has a big impact with the audience when it came to emotion because many people hate hearing about death and knowing that people are dying. Frontier Point does a great job making the audience feel compassionate. Frontier Point does a good job with adding logos and pathos in the advertisement because it connects with the audience emotionally and it gives them reasons. Frontier Point lets the audience connect with the advertisement it makes them feel worried and sad. “ Semiotically, what matters is the signal it sends, its value as a sign of power” (Jack Solomon pg, 527). The power Frontier Point sends in the advertisement is strong it lets the audience understand the problem with reckless driving.  Jack Solomon is the author an article called “Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising,” he explains how marketing teams conduct their merchandise for their audience to need there objects and the ways they persuade the audience that they are correct. Frontier point uses the details Solomon explains in his article. Starting with the background color, the two quotes and most of all the image. 

	The Frontier Point succeeds with having social context in there advertisement. The advertisement connects with social events that are occuring at the moment. Events like car accidents are non stop events that are occurring daily. The set of keys in the advertisement connects with the car accident that just occur on February 20th a five year old boy passed away because his mother accidently ran him over. People's lives are taken away very quickly because of drivers. At the same time the set of keys had a shape of a “gun” which also connects to the shooting that recently happened in Florida and many kids died. The advertisement of Frontier Point is able to open both topics of gun and drive violence. When individuals see this ad they understand that there is not only a problem with vehicles but guns too. 

	Frontier Point is not selling a product in there advertisement they are spreading awareness. In the website Epic, The CEO manger Maxwell Pond wrote “What Makes a Good Ad?” he explains the ways that companies make an impact on their audience. Frontier Point does a good job when it comes using efficentive headlines. “Because headlines are implicitly the first thing your viewer pays attention to, your headline should be attention-grabbing but should also encompass the overall message in a short sentence” (Maxwell Pond). The ad is kept simple and easy for the audience to get the message it's trying to make. With the two small phrases “Takes one life every 25 seconds” and “Drive Safe” the ad grabs the attention of the audience quickly. Pond states “Overall, great advertisements connect to their audience and provide memorable, informative, and compelling content that get viewers respond to the call to action” (Maxwell Pond). In the advertisement Frontier Point he is able to connect with the audience in all the aspects Pond explains. When the audience sees the ad they automatically want to improve there driving and be more careful. 

	The Frontier Point advertisement was created in 2013. At this time the crash accidents were 2.4 to 2.3 million injured people at the end of the year. In a report called “2013 Motor Vehicle Crashes: Overview” explained the number of accidents that happen in the start of 2012 and the end of 2013. “In 2013, 10,076 people lost their lives in alcohol-impaired-driving crashes” (Traffic Safety Facts, Research Notes: 2013 Motor Vehicle Crashes: Overview).  At this time the advertisement came out many people had got hurt or passed away. The advertisement created an overlook to the audience on how car accidents were high that year.  

	The Frontier Point website created this advertisement with a lot of strategies to get there messages across about safe driving to their audience. The advertisement had liveless colors and imagery to provide awareness about driving. The colors gray, black and white really brought the advertisement to be more eye catching.  Frontier Point applied to the human emotion which made there advertisement very efficient. 

































Works Cited  



Minamino, Frank. “Media Critics.” ​​Ever wonder if your car has the power of a gun?​​, 1 Jan.  

1970, ​​comm2302sp17.blogspot.com/2017/02/ever-think-your-car-had-power-of-gun.html. 

Pond, Maxwell. “Advertising & Digital Marketing Agency in utah.” Epic Marketing, 21 Dec. 2017,

	“Research Note:2013 Motor Vehicle Crashes :Overview .” U.S Department of Transportation 

	Solomon, Jack, “Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising.” Sings of Life in the U.S.A.,; Readings on Popular Culture for Writers, 6th ed. Ed Sonia Maasik and Jack Solomon, Boston: Bedford/St.Martin’s, 2009 . 523 - 534. 

 













