Value Cleanliness




          Cleanliness is defined as “the  or  of  yourself or    from ” (dictionary.cambridge.org). In “Neat People vs. Sloppy People,” Suzanne Britt disagreed with the term “cleanliness is next to Godliness” but claimed that “neat people are lazy, mean, petty, [and] callous” (Kennedy 221). I disagree with Britt that neat people are callous, rather I believe neatness enables a person to have a sense of focus and value. Practicing cleanliness allows a person to have reduced stress, maintain health, and learn to value his or her belongings.

           In order to reduce stress, cleanliness should be practiced. When a person is surrounded by a mess, they lose focus and get easily distracted. A study done at Princeton University, in 2011, found that “clutter can… make it more difficult to focus on a particular task” (Ryback 2016). For example, it is easier to study when a person is in an organized area. This way he or she can easily find what he or she needs and can get more studying in. If the area around a person is clean, then he or she will have less things to worry about and in turn his or her stress level goes down.

           In addition to cleanliness helping reduce stress, cleanliness also helps people maintain their overall health. Practicing good hygiene is an excellent way for people to maintain health. Good hygiene prevents him or her from contracting illnesses and diseases. Bacteria thrive on things that are not clean, so when a person is sloppy he or she is more likely to get sick. This happens because he or she does not take care of his or her body or environment. NiCole R. Keith, Ph.D., conducted a study on middle ages African Americans to determine the correlation between cleanliness and risk of heart disease. She found that those “who kept their homes clean were healthier and more active” (Ryback 2016). This study proved the point that practicing cleanliness does benefit your health. 
          Furthermore, practicing cleanliness helps a person understand the value of his or her belongings. In the essay “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” by Suzanne Britt, she claims that “everything is just another dust-catcher to them [neat people]” (Kennedy 222). Britt expressed this sentence with a negative connotation. She belittles how much a person cares for their belongings and claims that they just collect dust. I believe that people who value their belongings would want to keep them in the best condition possible. So by having them in a certain area, away from harm, they can continue to value it. She also claimed that neat people “never handle any item twice, and throw everything away” (Kennedy 222). I also do not agree with this statement because neat people have to handle their belongings in order to keep them in an excellent condition.

          In conclusion, practicing cleanliness allows a person to have reduced stress, maintain health, and learn to value his or her belongings. Suzanne Britt criticized neat people and praised sloppy people. I believe that maintaining cleanliness allows a person to not only have prolonged health benefits but it teaches them to value what they have. In all, practicing cleanliness is quite beneficial. 













Citations:



Ryback, R. (2016, July 11). The Powerful Psychology Behind Cleanliness. Retrieved February 22, 2018, from 

	

Kennedy, X. J., Kennedy, D. M., Aaron, J. E., & Repetto, E. K. (2017). The Bedford reader. Boston: Bedford/St.Martins.



Cleanliness. (2018). Cambridge Dictionary. Retrieved 22 February 2018, from https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/cleanliness