High School compared to College

I am pretty sure that almost every student from high school entering college can agree that high school and college are very different in many ways. Knowing that there are many differences, the main differences that many people believe can by the most popular are the ways to write an essay from high school to college, the environment you are around is different, the different expectations that high school teachers have compared to college professors. As I read Mosley and the different writing situations that you sent us, I have a better understanding of the types of writing that students do talking about the same situation of voting as students interpret it in many ways. Before ordering an essay, you got to have a structure on what you are trying to build upon and context to show the reader the main point that you are trying to get across in your essay or article. As reading other educational topics about this, college writing and the way high school is very different. 

High School as many incoming freshmen may know that high school writing is very structured in their writing. The writer must have 5 paragraphs to "summarize and restate in your own words the main point of the article or points of another work" (College Success). The next part would to "define and to describe, explore, or characterize a keyword, idea, or phenomenon" (College Success). The following part would be to "classify or to group individual items by their shared characteristics, separate from other groups of items" (College Success). Next would be to "compare and contrast the significant likeness and differences between two or more subjects" (College Success). Then to "analyze to break something, a phenomenon, or an idea into parts and explain how those parts fit or work together" (College Success). Second to last would be to "argue to state a claim and support it with reasons and evidence" (College Success). Lastly would be to "synthesize and pull together varied pieces or ideas from two or more sources" (College Success). Which is technically the step by step process of the 5-paragraph essay that high school teachers make you learn.  

People tend to see this very obvious because every student in a high school English has a different skill level from their classmates. So, a high school teacher is not going to give a hard essay to someone that is exceeding in high school and an easy essay to a student that is struggling because every high school district wants their students to reach a certain standard where our students are being successful. So once a student reaches college-level English they won't be under a certain standard. As Mosley mentions that, "In general, I would call high school writing formulaic." In college a writer is more independent since there are also different types of writings done in college like "lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements and essay questions based on different sources of information and specific professional models" (Gottschalk and Hjortshoj 4).

The expectations that high school teachers have are much lower than college professors because high school teachers want to keep everything nice and easy, so it would be easy to grade. Since they give you what to write about and how to write it. All the writer must do is fill in the blank on what the teacher gives so you can be graded from a scale A-F which is not very effective since every student, as I mentioned before, is not all on the same skill level in reading or writing. Compared to college writing where the professor can give a broad prompt and the writer can hit many different points that correspond to the topic. So, there is a variety of topics to choose from and there is no correct answer on a topic so you're able to think out of the box and show your knowledge you have on a topic. College students have a lot more freedom on what to write about which can be the really stressed relief.

The new environment can play a huge part in writing because it's something that can give you inspiration on a topic to think about. From moving to a school where you have friends from elementary school also plays a huge part since you could be more depending on friend that you know unlike college where the first day you are there, you feel more independent once you go or enter a college because you won't know many, there is not going to be familiar faces unlike high school where there are only one to three thousand people in school and at a college above ten thousand students.

As a result, college is different from high school on many different levels because there are many things that separate a college and high school like the expectation people have when entering college are a high and high school not as high as you would expect. The writing levels are greatly diverse in a great from what you learn from high school and entering college because professors want writers to break away from writing 5 paragraphs and be diverse in their writing.




Works Cited

[Authors removed at the request of original publisher]. "College Success." University of Minnesota Libraries Publishing, University of Minnesota Libraries Publishing Edition, 2015. This Edition Adapted from a Work Originally Produced in 2010 by a Publisher Who Has Requested That It Not Receive Attribution., 4 Dec. 2015, open.lib.umn.edu/collegesuccess/chapter/8-1-whats-different-about-college-writing/.

Gottschalk, Katherine, and Keith Hjortshoj. The Elements of Teaching Writing: A Resource for Instructors in All Disciplines. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's, 2004. 