
Martin Luther King Jr. is widely known for being an amazing public speaker who was able to convey messages with ease and persuade masses of people at once. I have to admit, I did not know about his speech “Why I am Opposed to the War in Vietnam” until I took this class, but I can see why it was so important. Throughout this speech, there were so many instances where claims that I had never thought of were brought up. In the beginning of MLK Jr.’s speech, he lets his audience know the reasons for his giving of this speech. He mentions that his conscious has left him no choice but to do so. He also states that people need to start seeing the truth about the war. By saying this, it really shows how much of a need he feels to make people aware of the situation with Vietnam and how it is wrong in his eyes. There are quite a few reasons that he outlines in this speech but there are some that stuck out to me more than others. King’s speech and his outline of reasons were heavily criticized and for the most part perceived in a negative manner. 
When reflecting upon Martin Luther King Jr.’s speech, “Why I am Opposed to the Vietnam War”, there are a variety of opinions and perspectives that come to mind. Many have dissected his speech and have been able to find his main claims on why he was so against this war in Vietnam. With the freedom of speech that we have so infamously established in America, come the perspectives of many, especially those who write their opinions on topics for a living. The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times were and still are two enormously famous newspaper companies that cover a vast amount of topics that occur all over. Many tune in to read what they have to say and their positions on MLK Jr’s speech is no different.There was more of a negative response to King’s speech due to many not wanting to agree with his main claims.
One of the first reasons King mentions is the price of the war. During that time there were programs that were helping to build the “Great Society” and to many’s surprise, they were actually helping out many people. Some of the acts that were helping fight the war on poverty that LBJ was so desperately fighting against were the omnibus housing act, the higher education act, the minimum wage act, and the economic opportunity act. King even brings up costs of the war and how they are affecting this battle when he states, “And you may not know it, my friends, but it is estimated that we spend $500,000 to kill each enemy soldier, while we spend only fifty-three dollars for each person classified as poor...” Numbers talk in instances like these and King’s claims makes perfect sense as to why the war in Vietnam is detrimental economically. Along with the numbers talk, in the article, “Rights Gifts Lag, Dr. King Reports” published by The New York Times, there is conversation made about the N.A.A.C.P’s budget and how it was affected by King’s speech on his public opposition to the war. Although the speech led to some budget cuts, new supporters were able to fill in the gaps. There seemed to be conversation surrounding their budgets almost as if they were doubting these organizations were going to be able to continue to thrive. 
When King mentions the irony of the negro and white men fighting alongside each other in Vietnam but not being able to sit together here in Vietnam, there was was a very important claim being made. Many fail to realize or even see how much irony was in those actions made by the US. It’s so unfair that negro men are able to go and die fighting, but are denied basic rights here in the U.S. It also ties with the whole idea of the US fighting for democracy to be all around the world as hypocrites because they can not even establish equality here in the country. It is highly likely that this was not taken well by the people who were against integration because they did not want to believe that rights should be equal amongst races. This racial problem that is mentioned in King’s speech was discussed in an article titled, “A Hope for Racial Progress” which was published by Los Angeles Times and written by WIlliam F. Buckley Jr. There was a recent survey done by the New York Times that showed how segregated the community was when it came to these racial problems. There were so many that were for integration of colored and white while there was also so many that were against it. According to a quote in the article, racial integration is impossible. There was then a third group mentioned which were the flat out racists who, as I stated before, refused to agree with King’s claims. The author proceeds to talk about progression and more optimism needs to come to subdue the negativity of the war. 
Another major reason in MLK Jr.’s speech involves Vietnam’s independence in 1945. They had declared themselves independent after fighting off France and King even mentioned how they quoted our declaration of independence. There is a sense of the rhetorical device of pathos used because King framed this situation to make Americans feel culpable for siding with France. A country did a great deed of quoting from our own declaration of independence in admiration and yet all they were faced with was denial and a lack of trust in them being able to govern themselves. President Truman decided that he should be the one to decide whether or not an entire country is ready to be on their own or not. The fact that so many supported him in the irrational fear of the spread of communism is probably what hurt Vietnam the most in this case. Since this fear of the spread of communism was so common in America, responses were highly likely to have been negative especially since the entire government was pushing to fight it. The fear of communism is also mentioned in King’s speech when he states, “It is a sad fact that because of comfort, complacency, a morbid fear of communism, our proneness to adjust to injustice, the Western nations that initiated so much of the revolutionary spirit of the modern world have now become the arch anti-revolutionaries.” Touching on the subject was highly important for King to do in this speech considering how much of a causing factor it was for the war. It felt as if he wanted to enlighten the people that were being blinded by this fear of communism. It was blinding them from a better future for our country. 
Moving onto another point, there is also the large ethical problem with this war. I think King is not only referring to this war in Vietnam, but the way wars are in general. He makes a powerful statement when he says, ‘“This way of settling differences is not just." This business of burning human beings with napalm, of filling our nation's homes with orphans and widows, of injecting poisonous drugs of hate into the veins of peoples normally humane…” It’s not a surprise for him to state these things considering how he likes to advocate for peaceful protests. He believes that this war should not even be happening in the first place and that it is only causing destruction and bringing nothing positive with it’s upcoming. 
When mentioning the ethical problems that King sees with the Vietnam war, there are many critiques who stated his ideas and concepts were false. An example is an article posted by the New York Times, titled, “Dr. King’s Error.” By reading the title, one can see the general idea of the author’s perception on King’s speech. It is mentioned that by mixing the topics of social progress and the Vietnam War, there was a great “disservice” done to them both. There is criticism stating that the civil rights movement took so much time and effort and by diverting the attention of that movement to the Vietnam war is a waste of time. King is criticised for knowing all too well of how lengthy of a process it has been to come this far with the civil rights movement and to move onto the topic of the war is seen to be as wasteful in his part. There is also a counter argument to the claim that the war will slow down social progress stating that the U.S has enough funds to keep a steady growing progress while continuing to stay in the war. In the ending of the article, there are final thoughts which summarize to say that Dr. King has the right to explore the moral factors of the war, but should not bring in racial injustice into the matter because it can end up causing “deeper confusion” between the people.
Another criticized moment of Dr. King’s speech was the way he portrayed the country of United States to be. In the article, “Dr. King’s Vietnam Opinion” published by the New York Times and again written by William F. Buckley jr. this portrait painted by King was taken as an insult. Buckley argues that there should not be these kind of accusations taken when there are other countries that are far worse such as German. He states that in those countries with leaders like Adolf Hitler, it is difficult to process the thought of America being a country that treats their people that way. It is also mentioned in the article that the leader of an organization was offended and believed that King’s claims were an insult to Americans’ intelligence. It is understandable for people to feel attacked when such strong words are conveyed to a large audience. The topic of the civil rights movement being destroyed due to the speech on the Vietnam war is brought up again and the claims remain the same. This was just another example of how King’s speech was perceived negatively amongst some.
One of the primary reasons, in my opinion, that King’s speech became so famous was because in the end he had a strong call to action. He called the people or basically all of America to stand up for what is right and just and to come back to focus on what is really important. He previously mentioned in his speech that he was extremely disappointed in America’s actions and that he opposes the war because of his love for America. One of the lines in which he conveys this call to action is when he states, “It is time for all people of conscience to call upon America to come back home. Come home, America…. I call on Washington today. I call on every man and woman of good will all over America today…. Tomorrow may be too late.” The last sentence claiming that tomorrow may be too late really evokes a sense of motivation in the audience. With such powerful words, powerful actions may proceed and this can be a frightening change for many whether it be the protesters or the bystanders. 
Martin Luther King Jr. made it extremely clear afterwards that his mind was not going to be changed on this subject. This is talked about in the article, “Dr. King Rebukes Critics of his Stand on War in Vietnam” published by the New York Times not too long after King had delivered his speech. They mention several quotes from King responding to the criticism. King recognized why there were doubters but did not fail to defend himself by standing his ground firmly for what he preached. He could be used as a prominent example of the phrase, “practice what you preach.” King also mentioned that he wanted to step up his opposition to the war further because of the fear that there would be a third world war involving China. To end his speech, King states that he will no longer study war and that he believes no one else should. This most likely interprets to reassure the audience of his strong stance opposing the war. 
Since there were was such a variety of responses to this speech, it is not difficult to claim that King’s speech, “Why I am Opposed to the War in Vietnam” was a popular and controversial subject. There were many supporters who agreed with his ideologies, while there were many who did not believe what he was saying to be accurate and or right. Since there were so many reasons stated in his speech, it can be difficult to pinpoint every exact one of his reasons for opposing the Vietnam War. However, what is not difficult is understanding his overall views and perspective on the war and America’s execution with this concept of combating communism. Although King’s speech contained reasoning for the financial toll the war would cost, the side effects from blindness towards the truth, and the ethical and racial problems tied in with this war, there were still many doubters. All of these claims and perspectives lead to King’s famous speech that received an immense amount of responses from it’s audience which leaned more towards being negative or disagreeing.