Educational System 

	The issues the plague the American educational system are well documented.  Authors such as Grant Penrod, Anu Partanen, and Jonathan Kozol share some the problems in the American education system in their essays. Problems in the American education system is evident in all levels of education. From grade school to highschool and even college. 

	Grant Penrod, who wrote an essay for his first year composition course at Arizona State University called “ Anti-Intellectualism: Why We Hate the Smart Kids”.  Grant Penrod states in the essay that:

Perhaps the most obvious cause of anti-intellectualist tendencies, harmful social stereotypes begin to emerge as early as in high school. The idea of the “geek” or “nerd” of the class is a familiar one to most students, and it is not a pleasant one.

In highschool even grade school the smartest one in the class is always looked down upon. In society many of the smartest people are called; nerds, geeks, losers. The perception of this has to be changed. Intellectualism driven mind will always be laughable in today’s world. Uneducated success corrupts the mind of the students of today's world. Grant states in his essay “Anti-Intellectualism: Why We Hate the Smart Kids”, 

Uneducated Success extends far beyond just singers and sport stars, too; even the current President of the United States presents the image of the success of nonintellectualism. His reputation as a “C’’ student is widely touted, and his public speeches hardly exonerate his intellelctual image.

Many see the president as an intellectual man but in reality was an C student. This shows people that education is optional and not a necessity. When students think that all this studying is a waste of time then they’re not going to apply themselves to their education. Society needs to not put down those who are driven to be the best and brightest. 

	The educational system in the United States is far worse than the education system in other countries. Anu Partanen, a Finnish writer, who explain how the Finnish school system is far more improved than any other  school system in the world. In the essay Anu Partanen conveys that 

Compared with the stereotype of the East Asian model--long hours of exhaustive cramming and rote memorization- Finland’s success is especially intriguing because Finnish schools assign less homework and engage children in more creative play. 

Many United States schools use an outdating program. Stuck in the way its been done for a hundred years. The United States educational system is based lots on memory. You learn something and aspect to have it memorized. This results in lots of cramming of material the day before. In the end this way does not bring the best out of a student. In Finland they implement a more creative process. This creative process can be hindered by what type of school the students have been to. In the states there are schools that parents pay a hefty price. These schools are substantially better than the public schools. They have better teachers, better facilities, and materials. These students have an advantage more than everyone else because of their parents financial advantage. Anu Partanen states that, “ There are no private universities, either. This means that practically every person attends public school.” The addition of private schools ruin the opportunity of the people. When every student has an equal opportunity of education not based on financial income is when the educational system will improve. 

	“Fremont High School” written by Jonathan Kozol, an award winning writer, is a prime example of the United States education system failing our students. Fremont High School gives us a better look into our disadvantaged school system. In his essay Jonathan Kozol conveys that 

According to the teachers at the school, the average ninth grade student reads at fourth or fifth grade level. Nearly a third read at third grade level or below. About two thirds of the ninth grade students drop out prior to twelfth grade.

This shows what state Fremont high school is in. From the way it looks on the outside to the way its ran on the inside gives these students less opportunity. Many of the students in Fremont High School don’t have this opportunity. They lack the basic required classes to even graduate. They are forced to take classes that have no impact in a students life. Kozol states, “When I asked the teacher why Mireya could not skip these subjects and enroll in classes that would help her college aspirations. She replied, “It isn’t a question of what the student wants. It’s what the school may have available.” Fremont High school has classes like hairdressing and sewing that are not beneficiary to the students further develop their education. Even if students want to research something. They cannot because the library is always occupied. Fremont high school uses the library as everything, testing center and administration of examination. It's practically never open.  The opportunity that these students of Fremont High School have are far less than any. This is a example of the American school system not caring about its students. Not giving everybody equal opportunity, to learn like everyone else. 

	Problems with the educational system are prevalent.  Students must be given the same opportunity as everyone else. Not based of wealth or what area a students from. In the end authors Grant Penrod, Anu Partanen, and Jonathan Kozol share this concern and many others like them. Once a better educational system is put together, then we will see improvements. Improvements in every aspect in people's lives. 































Work Cited

Partanen, Anu. "Finland's School Success." Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings (2016): n. pag. Abstract. (n.d.): 976-82. Print.

Kozol, Jonathan. "Fremont High School." Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings (2016): n. pag. Abstract. (n.d.): 716-24. Print.

Bader, Eleanor J. "Homeless on Campus." Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings (2016): n. pag. Abstract. (n.d.): 710-14. Print.





	