

	Today’s advertisements come in one of two ways, Manipulative or persuasive. Americans rely on technology more than any generation that past combined. 77% of Americans are using some source of technology, mainly a smartphone, to improve on someone’s life by claiming to be “efficient”, creating a generation where teenagers are impatient, idiotic, and the lack of communication between stranger to stranger is no more. Exposing the youth to a network of fast adapting ideas and changes while leaving those who aren’t with the latest devices to categorize as “old” or “unfunctional”.  Advertisement is an art used to persuade or manipulate its victim into purchasing their products, creating profit and maximizing on profit while minimizing the materials used to create its product.  Brainwashing consumers into believing their product is the best is available through the rigorous steps advertisers do to make an ad successful. Apple in my opinion combines a variety of strategies like culture and societal to fabricate the perfect ads. Admittedly, I was raised in a generation of technology and ads worked together to better “help” consumers pick out a product. 

	Diversity seems to be the focus of this ad. With all the controversy of cops killing African American in the news, everyone is questioning whether racism is a factor in the 21 centuries…. Pressuring companies to include every ethnicity before getting hit with the racist card by under showing other ethnicities. Apple took charge of its ad as it included many faces from different ethnicities, thus placing an image to those who believe racism is a huge factor in our society and imprinting itself to weak spots. Making it seem like Apple’s made for everybody. “Apple Computers, Inc. was founded on April 1, 1976, by college dropouts Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, who brought to the new company a vision of changing the way people viewed computers. Jobs and Wozniak wanted to make computers small enough for people to have them in their homes or offices. Simply put, they wanted a computer that was user-friendly.” (Terrell) Now as a business oligopoly, its ads are targeted at whatever the mass is showing while still maintaining their goal. I believe the ad is showing how diverse the iPhone can go by implementing face ID (a face detection system for security) and showing that no matter how different someone looks; the iPhone is capable to read its subject’s face and unlock all the features. Competitors under the same product category as Apple have implemented similar technologies to their products, Difference is who would advertise the technology call out how “revolutionary” their products are.

	As a technology brand, Apple has gain its success not only in fame, but in a bond other companies don’t have. Building computers since 1971 to 2018, waiting for the next revolutionary phone, Apple’s technology is trusted by billions of consumers. It’s a fact, Apple has some of the best software and hardware integration between its products since the introduction of the first Apple computers. For example, Bill Gates copied and rewrote Steve jobs code back in 1975. Microsoft was created and became as successful as Apple. Reasons why Apple became such a “revolutionary” brand was its way with technology and simplifying software to make the end user more aware of what they’re pushing. Using Android phones grants users access to customize every feature the phone can provide, starting situations where the product could be damaged, further unreeling from android and favoring the iPhone. Another reason some consumers buy Apple products is word going around. With little differential between its product lines like laptops, its easy for a consumer to choose one and get the same value for the money compared to gambling a windows laptop, hoping it’ll work without turning onto a blue screen. Encountering problems with Apple products is also a process where work simplification was implemented, further creating a bubble consumer are trapped upon. Walking into a store where employees fix the product in a day compared to windows users stuck calling customer support.

	“THE FIRST EXPERIMENTS with semi-automated computer-based facial recognition were made during the mid-1960s by Woodrow Wilson Bledsoe, a pioneer of artificial intelligence, who devised a system for noting key facial landmarks on each picture.” (Tucker) It’s no secret companies replicate each other, but to call Face ID revolutionary is all a marketing strategy. Living in a materialistic generation where having the latest iPhone gets people looked upon as compared to someone who isn’t. Realistically, Apple’s focus is to create profit from a market with multiple vulnerabilities. Adding features to new products such as Animoji’s on the iPhone X only pushes the consumer into believing life without new features is looked down at. “The parts for the base model of the iPhone X with 64 gigabytes of storage cost $370.25, according to an analysis by research firm IHS Markit, Bloomberg reports. That figure does not include manufacturing and software.”  (Jenkins) Cost to build an iPhone X is far lower compared to buying it thanks to cheap Chinese labor. Factories at china are known to have cheap laborer’s working for as low as $.90 an hour. “The investigator claimed that workers earn about $1.85 (AU$2.55 or £1.20) per hour and pull significant overtime hours to make enough money to cover living expenses. The report further claimed that the standard shift was nine hours a day, but that starting in September staff worked an additional minimum of 20 hours of overtime each week, usually split between an extra two hours each weekday and one 10-hour shift on Saturdays. With overtime accounted for, the factory's workers earn about $753 (AU$1,045 or £490) in monthly wages.” (Kan) Unfair gaps between work while building an inexpensive product and selling it to millions of brainwashed sheep for 3x the amount is a sweet spot apple has found and will continue to build on this foundation.

	Continuing the tradition of making social advertisements and hitting weak points in the consumers emotions and feelings is a trend Apple will not be fond to give up anytime soon. The iPhone X ad is a perfect example of mixing what’s culturally going on in our society without taking the eyes off the product. Immersive advertisement with a product from a favorite band to most is a no brainer for some folks. Apple is a company made to trick its consumers into buying products from them. Generating an endless cycle of “revolutionary” ideas to be perceive as an innovative company with mind blowing technology. All in all, Apple continues to be a leading giant in technology and how it’ll continue to be until another (new) company finds new ways to shake up the industry. Competitor are now following the footsteps Apple has already taken. 

	

	








Terrell, Ellen. “Apple Computer, Inc.” Apple Computers: This Month in Business History (Business Reference Services, Library of Congress), Apr. 2008, . (ACI)

65, Men aged, and older spent more on Apple devices than any other demographic group in the United States last year. “Who Is Buying Apple Products?” CNNMoney, Cable News Network, 29 Oct. 2015, money.cnn.com/2015/10/29/technology/Apple-customers/index.html.

“Mobile Fact Sheet.” Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech, 5 Feb. 2018, .

 “Facial Recognition Technology Goes Way Back.” Edited by Jennifer Tucker,BostonGlobe.com, 23 Nov. 2014, .

Jenkins, Aric. “Here's How Much the Parts Actually Cost.” Time, Time, 8 Nov. 2017, www.time.com/money/5014941/iphone-x-cost-price/.

Kan, Michael. “Low Wages, Long Hours Persist at iPhone Factory, Says Labor Group.” CNET, CNET, 22 Oct. 2015, .