The difference between College and High School writing 





	In college, writing is a whole lot different from high school, the structure of the essay, your audience , and the evidence or support you use to construct your essay are completely different in college. Making the transition from high school to college seems difficult but shows a huge improvement in academic writing.In college much more is expected out of us, we are expected to come up with our own ideas and apply them.



	In the article “ the truth about high school English” by M.Mosely he says,”They want to know exactly how many words they need to write, when the assignment is due, and whether or not they are allowed to say "I" in their piece.” In high school this might be the case, but in college, you break past these questions. While writing a college student should break past these questions and be able to write as much as we can. In the past it was an intro, then the body with a minimum of 3 paragraphs and then your conclusion, this method isn’t accepted as much in college. When we write we should right as much as we can with no limit, college is about challenging your own writing abilities. Although writing with no limit is good but using different strategies in writing can help with perfecting your essay before the final draft. 



	

	When writing an essay in high school they were for any audience you choose to write to, later on in college things change and your audience could be your professor or classmates. The audience of an essay is important to think about, in high school the reader should have some relevance to the topic but in college you know your audience. From my own personal experience the transition from having a general audience to knowing my audience has changed my perspective because I'm able to grab my readers attention and go more into depth with my topic. During the writing process you would’ve made general assumptions about your audience and used writing strategies to pull your audience in, but now during the process of a higher level academic writing assignment you know your audience, what they want to read, and the knowledge of the audience.



	Lastly, the arguments of essays turn from being one sided to not having to be as much one sided. Being one sided in an essay only give the reader a specific perspective rather than having two perspectives that new introduce new knowledge to the reader. I college, academic writing needs to feel like a conversation because of all the information that is being expressed to the reader, but in high school you would express all the information and content you had to the audience. When presenting an argument professors expect you to know the weaknesses of the argument and for you to address them and show evidence to support. Presenting 





Quotes and hard evidence also becomes necessary, because your argument or statement must be proven without bias in higher education writing.



	In college academic writing becomes more intense because we are expected to be able to break our own barriers to become a better writer. The big differences I’ve noticed in college writing are our audience the essay is for, the structure, and your arguments and evidence. The writing of a college student becomes more in depth because there are no limits to writing.

























	