Essay One ~ Rough Draft	

Apple is a well-known technology company that stays on top of their game. They are constantly renovating their company products. In a recent ad, they were advertising one of their newest inventions that is tied along to iTunes known as Apple Music. For this ad they used famous country and pop artist Taylor Swift. They showed her on the treadmill getting ready to begin her workout. Before she began her workout she sighed as she was putting on her earphones and said “Man… I hate cardio” after that she headed to the apple music app on her iPhone and found a workout playlist and began to ran. Throughout the commercial it showed her in her own zone running, feeling good, and super into the song. Toward the end of the commercial she fell off the treadmill because she was so distracted and into the music that it took her mind off of her workout. After that it followed with a slogan “distractingly good”.

In this ad Apple used famous country and pop artist, Taylor Swift and the popular iPhone to appeal to ethics. They used Taylor because of her successes and knew that she’d be able to persuade the crowd into wanting an iPhone and Apple Music because she has one. The ad shows her having a great time listening to Apple Music on her iPhone while working out. It manipulates the audience into believing that they need an iPhone because that is the only way they could access Apple Music while working out. Taylor being the famous artist she is also gives comfort to the crowd due to the fact that her music is on Apple Music therefore if it is good enough for her to listen to music on and to have her music played on there then it is good enough for you. 

The ad creates an amusing highlight towards the end of the ad. The amusing highlight would be when she falls off the treadmill.

	Apple did this ad to target and appeal to all different types of crowds. The ad definitely touches a wide range of audiences from young teens all the way to adult men. It touches young teens and even grown women because their attention is admittedly grabbed by Taylor’s presence on the ad. Taylor’s presence grabs female’s attention because her music appeals to women, in her music she talks about many thing teens and women can relate to from when she started to now. Many teens listen to her music today and many middle aged women went through their teens years listening to her music which is why her presence can grasp their attention. It can appeal to adult men for two reasons. The first is because she is a pretty and attractive female showing some skin. The second reason is because men would find her falling of the treadmill amusing. Another reason it would appeal to different crowds is because she is singing hip hop artist Drake’s hit Jump Man, which would catch attention to those who enjoy hip hop music as well.

 	They did this commercial for two specific reasons. The first reason was to persuade their audience into thinking apple music is what they need to distract them from cardio. They showed Taylor so into the workout, having a great time while running on the treadmill to make their audience think that if they were to do cardio while using Apple Music they’d feel distracted and enjoy their workout like Taylor. The second reason was to convince their audience that Apple Music was the way to go. At the end of the commercial they were sure to mention that you could access all the music you want and that you could join now and cancel anytime. They informed you with that information to manipulate you. They wanted you to feel like not only will it distracted you from cardio but you can access whatever music you want at any time. However their true intentions were to make you believe that Apple music was a unique music streaming service that is better than all the other competitors out there such as Pandora or Spotify. 

Apple did not only use Taylor because she was fit but they used her because of her attractiveness. She’s pretty and she looked good running in a sports bra and spandex pants. “The very language of today’s advertisements is charged with sexuality” (Solomon). As Solomon discussed in his article ad’s use sex to sell. Many viewers more than likely didn’t realize but this ad is the perfect example of how companies can use sex to sell. Why couldn’t Taylor run in the tank top and pants? Why did she have to run with her tank top tied on the side showing her fit stomach? But as Solomon explained in his article sex sells and would have an effect on the audience.

