Effects of Domestic Violence	

“One woman is beaten by their partner approximately every 15 seconds in the United States alone.” (HRF).  Which is a vicious cycle that many can't break free from. This being because many of the victims which are women suffer from something called Battered Women’s Syndrome (BWS). According to Finding law BWS,  it “is a mental disorder that develops in victims of domestic violence as a result of serious, long-term abuse.” (Findlaw). Women who suffer from this syndrome according to Health Research Funding, “often believe that the violence was/is their fault, the victim is unable to assert the responsibility of the violence anywhere, fears for their safety and the safety of others in their family, and believes that the antagonist (abuser) is omnipresent.” (HRF). Now, these are all ways in which this syndrome affect the individual/victim. However, for someone like myself who has known women who are victims of domestic violence it is pretty difficult to fathom why no one helps or reports these incidents. For this reason, in this essay I will further explain the effects of this syndrome on women and why they decide to stay with their abusers. By doing this hopefully it sheds some light as to why this is so common.

To begin with, as previously stated one woman is beat ever fifteen seconds. However, according to the Feminist Majority Foundation only about half of the victims report the incidents. Also, according to Health Research Funding 74% of people have known or know someone with battered woman syndrome. So, why is this still a syndrome that affects many woman and why is it still underreported? The answer is simple, it is because domestic violence goes way beyond just physical damage. It is detrimental to emotional health this being because the abusers usually isolate the victims as stated in a FOX News article. Now when that occurs as, Nerina Garcia-Arcement, a licensed clinical psychology and a clinical assistant professor at the NYU School of Medicine stated, “they (abusers) begin to erode their self-esteem by insulting them or calling them names, telling them that no one else would want them, etc.,” Garcia-Arcement said. “Once the (victim’s) self esteem is fragile, they often begin the physical abuse.”. As a result, many women start to believe what they are being told and that they are worthless which leads them to stay with their abusers because they feel as if they can’t make it on their own. A perfect example is a twenty nine year old woman named Heather who states on The National Domestic Violence website, “At first I didn’t believe it,” says Heather, “but eventually his words made sense because they gave an explanation for things I never understood.” (Heather). Which led Heather to stay with her husband despite having two miscarriages due to the violence and having her kids witness all the violence. Now, Heather isn’t the only one who has undergone she is just one of millions of woman who have been through the same thing but, they all had one thing in common and that’s the fact that the abusers damaged their self esteem making them feel obliged to stay as Heather states, “I was manipulated so badly by my ex-husband that I believed I deserved it, and I’m sure I’m not the only one who has gone through that.” (Heather).

To continue, some women may not leave because of economic reasons. This being because as previously stated the abusers usually isolate the victim and are the sole providers of the household or they take all the earnings of the victim. Resulting in, women depending on them for everything and not being able to fend for themselves and having to think about facing poverty. This was the case with a woman on The Guardian who decides to remain anonymous for safety reasons. She stayed because, “lost my high-flying job due to “stress” and worse, I lost my confidence. I was financially dependent, utterly confused.” (Anonymous). However, the reality was that her abuser didn’t want her to work anymore and her condition worsened. She is only one of 33% of women who go through this as she states. 

One final reason women might stay is because they don’t want to destroy their family more importantly their kids. As a matter of fact, 3-4 million kids according to the Domestic Violence Roundtable. Also, according to The National Domestic Violence Hotline 40% of child abuse cases had to do with domestic violence in the family. Now, despite all these facts why is it that women still stay? Well, as a woman stated on the Institute for Family Studies, “I was afraid if he wasn’t beating me he would beat his kids. And I valued their lives more than my own.” And, “I stayed for 20 years while I protected our children, all while I was being abused.” (Anonymous). Which is the reality for many women but in reality they just end up hurting their kids even more because as shown on Childhood  Domestic Violence Foundation, “Children who’ve experienced domestic violence often meet the diagnostic criteria for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder(PTSD) and the effects on their brain are similarly to those experienced by combat veterans” and “Children of domestic violence are 3 times more likely to repeat the cycle in adulthood, as growing up with domestic violence is the most significant predictor of whether or not someone will be engaged in domestic violence later in life.” 

At the end of it all, this syndrome will continue to be a prominent issue. However, it’s good to shed light on this issue that so many people encounter everyday. This being because, by knowing a bit more as to why women who are abused stay more people will be able to better help these victims. As well as be more empathetic and realize that it isn’t a choice to stay. 









































Works Cited

“10 Startling Statistics about Children of Domestic Violence.” CDV, 22 Aug. 2016, cdv.org/2014/02/10-startling-domestic-violence-statistics-for-children/. 

“24 Uncommon Battered Woman Syndrome Statistics.” HRFnd, 4 Sept. 2014, healthresearchfunding.org/battered-woman-syndrome-statistics/. 

Anonymous. “A Moment That Changed Me: Having the Courage to Leave an Abusive Relationship | Anonymous.” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 28 Apr. 2016, www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/apr/28/i-had-the-courage-to-leave-an-abusive-relationship. 

“Domestic Violence and Mental Health: How Are They Intertwined?” Fox News, FOX News Network, www.foxnews.com/health/2012/06/19/domestic-violence-and-mental-health-how-are-intertwined.html. 

“Eight Reasons Women Stay in Abusive Relationships.” Institute for Family Studies, ifstudies.org/blog/eight-reasons-women-stay-in-abusive-relationships. 

“Statistics.” The National Domestic Violence Hotline, www.thehotline.org/resources/statistics/. 

www.feminist.org/other/dv/dvfact.html.

