Racism in American Culture	

One day I was looking through social media and I saw a viral video of two African American males getting arrested at a Starbucks store in Philadelphia. The video shows the two African Americans males handcuffed by the police while the other customers try to defend the two African American men by saying that, “They did nothing wrong." The police still ended up arresting the two men and the video went viral. The employees called the police because the two men didn’t order anything. Starbucks was criticized by everyone on social media. Most people thought that the Starbucks employees were discriminating the two African American men and that’s why they called the cops on them. Of course in the American culture, people will always assume that this is racism because they're picking on two African American men. More and more incidents like this are starting to occur in America again.

Racism is becoming a big problem in today’s society and people all around America are starting to protest against racism like in the 1960s. Unlike the 1960s where most people in America protest against  racism, today there are barely any protest against racism. But the issue of racism is starting to come back in the American culture and people are starting to talk about racism again. Today in America, people are still debating what is considered as racism and what is not. So why does racism still exists in the American culture today? There are many reasons why racism still exists today and we never really eradicate racism that’s why people are still experiencing racism today. 

Hate speech is one of the biggest factors why racism still exists today. Every words that we said are protected under the first amendment freedom of speech, so trying to get someone in trouble just because they said something offensive won’t help. According to Yusuf Yüksel and Ayhan Akbulut in the article “Freedom of Speech,” any speech “is counted as one of the fundamental human rights by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948” and this includes hate speech. In today's society, racism comes from hate speech because we can’t stop someone from saying something bad towards other people. That’s why it’s useless protesting against racism. Americans have been debating over freedom of speech and hate speech for many years. So how do we deal with hate speech if it’s protected by freedom of speech? According to Traci L. Nelson, in the article “Speech Code,” many colleges and schools have implanted speech code to prevent staff or students from saying “hate speech” and it’s estimated that “62% of colleges in the United States still have some forms of speech code”. This means that colleges and school is trying to battle against racism by creating rules in their college or school to stop offensive speech. These colleges and school are still trying to do something against racism. If racism were to fully disappear than school and colleges wouldn’t have to take any action against racism, but because racism still exists, they still have to do something to get rid of racism. 

        	Many of the racism incidents that happen today are due to people’s preconceived opinion towards other race. People judge too quickly without even knowing who the other person really is. According to Tom Jacobs in the article “More Evidence That Black Shoppers Are Subject To Racism,” there was a study done to see if African American residents experienced racism while shopping. The study has a total of 55 participants and out of the 55 participants, 22 participants has “experienced being followed around, or suspected of shoplifting.” This shows that there are still people who assume that someone will do something bad because of their race. It shows how we have evolved to judge someone by their race and this judgment comes from the past in the American Culture where racism used to be a norm. Now it’s just people judging others based on their race. Racism will continue to exist as long as we still judge other people by their own race.

Many people assume that just because there’s no law supporting racism, there’s no racism. While it’s true that most laws don’t support racism, we still have “unconscious biases” that kind of promote racism according to Nathalia Gjersoe a senior lecturer in developmental psychology at the University of Bath. He states that we have “a strong tendency to favour our own group over the other group.” And we tend to “... remember more positive things about members of their in-group and more negative things about members of the out-group ...” In other words, Gjersoe is saying that we are more likely to the like the people we know more than those we don’t know and when we do that, we’ll have more negative thoughts of the people that we don’t know. The negative thoughts that we have cause us not to like the other group and this makes us more aware that they will do something bad even though it’s only our assumption. The people’s mind and opinion are one of the reasons why racism still exists nowadays. The moment that we assume someone is bad because of their race, is the moment that we are doing something racist since this is basically how racism started. No matter how many times we protest; we can’t change people’s opinion. We can’t get rid from racism if we still have these “unconscious biases.”  

Another reasons that explains why racism still exists today is discrimination. In the Starbucks incident, the two African American men were being discriminated because they were picked on based on their race. Events like this still happen today although many laws have passed to end discrimination years ago. According to the article “The Emotional Toll Of Shopping While Black,” Angela Fichter reports that “...46% of black people reported unfair treatment in stores and restaurant, compare to only 16 percent of white people.” This means that African American who’s going shopping will still have a chance of experiencing discrimination today. This shows how racism is still happening and it's not just the Starbucks incident, but also happen to other people too. Although we don’t see racism happen on the news that much, there are people who still experiencing racism in the American culture today.

The racial incident in Starbucks has caused Starbucks to take action and making sure that this won’t happen again. They are trying to change the way their employees treat customers after seeing that many people are not happy with the incident. According to USA Today, Starbucks will be closing all their store in the U.S. on May 29 to “conduct racial-bias training for employees.” Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson also apologized for the incident and states that “Closing our stores for racial bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication from every level of our company and partnerships in our local communities.” Instead of waiting for the government to do something, Starbucks take matter into their own hand and try to find a solution for it. They’re trying give their employees the opportunity to stop racial profiling and overall to make sure that people don’t discriminate other. This shows that racism is still here today and we still need to do a lot more to end racism. 

In general, racism still exists in the American culture because most people’s judgment hasn’t changed much and that is what fueling racism in the American culture. Racism doesn’t exist in most laws today, but it still exists in our American society. The American culture has changed so much now that racism is becoming uncommon, but that doesn’t mean that people won’t experience it. Many people have protested against racism and trying to end it in the past, but now only some people still protest. The protest that most people did in the past may have ended racism laws, but not people’s beliefs. The American culture is still experiencing racism and the fight against racism is still not over. 





































Works Cited

Miles, Tiya. “Fighting Racism is Not Just a War of Words.” New York Times. 21, Oct. 2017.  

Yüksel, Yusuf, and Ayhan Akbulut. "Freedom of Speech." Encyclopedia of Diversity and Social Justice, edited by Sherwood Thompson, Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 1st edition, 2014. Credo Reference, http://hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login?url=https://search.credoreference.com/content/entry/rowmandasj/freedom_of_speech/0?institutionId=5473. Accessed 03 May 2018.

Nelson, Traci L. "Speech Codes." Culture Wars in America: An Encyclopedia of Issues, Viewpoints, and Voices, edited by Roger Chapman, and James Ciment, Routledge, 2nd edition, 2013. Credo Reference, http://hmlproxy.lib.csufresno.edu/login?url=https://search.credoreference.com/content/entry/sharpecw/speech_codes/0?institutionId=5473. Accessed 03 May 2018. 

Jacobs, Tom. “More Evidence That Black Shoppers Are Subject To Racism.” Pacific Standard. 10, Nov. 2017. 

Gjersoe, Nathalia. “How Can We Fix Unconscious Racism?” The Guardian. 8, Jul. 2015.  

Flicher, Angela. “The Emotional Toll Of Shopping While Black.” The Establishment. 10, Jun. 2016. 

Meyer, Zlati. “Starbucks closing U.S. stores on May 29 for racial-bias training.” USA Today.  







