Education is a crucial part in a child’s life to become a successful individual as an adult. The United States requires all children to attend school so they can learn basic subjects, acquire social and communication skills, get into college, enter a career, and finally contribute back to society. Unfortunately, there are many issues in the school systems that America has to offer. Whether it is comparing United States schools to other schools in the nation or comparing these schools to other countries, there are many faults that show why this nation’s education programs are not as efficient as they claim to be. Jonathan Kozol, Anu Partanen, and many other authors address some of the reasons in which schools in America are not succeeding in fulling preparing their students for life. This includes unnecessary classes, too much standardized testing, pointless at-home assignments, undedicated teachers, lack of schools in poverty areas, and favoring particular students. However, many professionals, parents, and even students state that the main issue present in American schools that prevents a productive education is one thing- inequality for all students. 
    Throughout the United States, majority of parents can agree that their child complains about having to do loads of homework and projects outside of school hours, while other students do not. In the article “What Americans Keep Ignoring About Finland’s School Success” Anu Partanen describes that this is not just a matter of students being uncooperative, but how it is proven that this amount of work is not beneficial to the children. The United States is known for giving students an excessive amount of standardized tests and homework, but this method is failing because it is not a productive teaching method. Instead, it is forcing these students to search the internet for answers to homework, and last minute memorization for a standardized test that they will forget the next day. On the other hand, Partanen writes that schools in Finland are more successful because they “assign less homework and engage children in more creative play.” With this approach to education, each individual is given a learning experience that is unique to that particular student, proven to be more effective in learning the material. The United States can learn from this form of schooling, as well as the fact that Finland does not participate in large amounts of standardized testing, but instead evaluating each students progress when grading them. 
    Even if America were to assign less homework and standardized tests, the main issue of inequality still exists in every school and community. Across the nation there is a wide variety of different types of public and private schools, all offering different opportunities for learning. Unfortunately, in communities where poverty levels are high, there is a very limited amount of education that is available to children. Although the parents have a choice of where to send their children to school, it is unequal and unfair because not all schools allow students to have the same learning experience, because some communities are prioritized over others. In Finland, families are also given the chance to choose a school for their kids, but the predominant difference is that all school districts are equal. Therefore, the issue that the United States needs to address is that the fight to be the best school district or teacher in the U.S. is only tearing apart the education system, because Partanen states that “the goal of the program that Finland instituted, resulting in so much success today, was never excellence, it was equity.” 
    When attempting to reach equality among schools in America, the education system focuses on meeting the bare minimum requirements stated by law instead of reaching for an equal learning experience, which they should be doing. In the article “Fremont High School,” the author Jonathan Kozol describes the ultimate matter of inequality in the school of a high poverty community. This school is the perfect illustration of school districts that focus on meeting the minimum requirements instead of making sure the students receive the proper education they deserve. They provided the minimum amount of restrooms, selection of courses, time for class and lunch, all while forgetting to realize that the students were not learning anything beneficial for their future. Furthermore, Kozol describes that even though the school understood what it meant to be discriminated against in a high poverty area, the administration still prioritized specific students, making their school even further from becoming equal. When it came to receiving the best education from Fremont High School, Kozol noticed that the AP students were given the first opportunity for everything, leaving the other students behind. This meant that while some students were given more access to the library and first choices when picking classes, the school district was missing the whole purpose of education, because the other students were learning nothing after being placed in classes they did not wish for. 
    To conclude, although the United States is making some effort to change their education systems to be more equal, they are doing so in the wrong ways. Giving out state testing, useless and stressful homework, meeting least possible requirements, and treating the “more important” students with priority is not solving the issue, but instead being the opposite of progress. America instead needs to focus on more equity in each classroom, school, school district, state, and all of these across the entire country in order to solve the problem of inefficient education. They can learn more from nations like Finland, who take time to ensure every teacher and environment is qualified enough to provide a proper education for all students, not just the ones that come from a more privileged background. Once education in the United States is able to state that all schools have an exactly equal opportunity as the next, only then can they claim that their schooling systems are beginning to improve.