
“The Sorrow of Henrietta Lacks”

	Henrietta Lacks was an African American women whose cells got taken from her when she died. Henrietta did not give consent for the doctors to take her cells, but the doctors took it anyways. The doctors ended up giving her cells to get researched, but come to find out her cells made history because they are unique. What makes her cells unique is that “they became the first immortal human cells ever grown in a laboratory” (Skloot pg. 4). The procedure Henrietta Lacks had was unethical because the family did not receive any type of benefits, the doctors did not receive consent, and the doctors took all the credit for the discovery. 

	First, Henrietta Lacks family was disappointed in how the doctor did not reach out to them. The family did not receive any benefits for giving information to the doctors about Henrietta. “A lawyer might have told the Lacks family they could sue on the grounds of privacy violation or lack of informed consent” (Skloot pg. 198). The family knew what the doctors did was not legal at all, so suing would be their best option. Since Henrietta Lacks was not there with them, the family is speaking for Henrietta. 

	Secondly, due to Henrietta’s poor learning and knowledge she had; it was unlawful for the doctors to go through with the procedure. “She didn’t read or write much, and she hadn’t studied science in school” (Skloot pg.16). This shows that Henrietta does not have to proper school knowledge to consent to a major procedure getting done to her. The doctors should  

have knew by the way she talked that they should have told her about the procedure in a more simpler and detailed way. The Henrietta procedure was done unlawfully due to the doctors actions and misinterpretation. 

	Third, the doctors took all the credit when they found out how important and life changing the Hela cells were. “Researches around the world were working to develop a vaccine for Hepatitis B, and doing so required a steady supply of antibodies like Salvin’s, which pharmaceutical companies were willing to pay large sums for” (Skloot pg. 202). Doctors realized that they can make a lot of money by finding different types of cures and treatments because no one else had found any. The doctors did not even thank the family for the valuable information they had gave them, instead they used the money they earned and spent it on themselves. Doctors should have been more considerate and helped the family out with some type of positive benefit from the situation. 

However, it is true that the Henrietta Lacks procedure is unethical, but I argue that some people may believe that the procedure Henrietta Lacks had was ethical and the doctors did nothing wrong. Lacks cells helped “develop drugs for treating herpes, leukemia, influenza, hemophilia, and Parkinson's disease…” (Skloot pg. 4). If the doctors never took Henrietta’s cells they would have never discovered treatments to many diseases. The doctors was able to help many sick patients and their founding of treatment progressively got better. Henrietta cells made a positive impact on the world till this day due to the discovery of cures and treatments doctors had found.





Although, the criticism listed above is a valid one; at the same time it is important to realize what the doctors did to Henrietta Lacks was illegal, immoral, and deplorable. Even though Henrietta did sign the consent paper, it was still unlawful for the doctors because of her level of comprehension. You would think that a doctor could realize whether or not a person fully understands an important consent form, correct? If Henrietta’s family was aware of what was going on earlier, Henrietta cells would have never made history. The doctors need to own up to their mistake and take responsibility that their actions was not the best choice.

Thus, Henrietta Lacks will always be remembered due to the doctors unlawful action. Without the doctors nobody would have knew about Henrietta Lacks and the significance she has with her name. The doctors made the procedure unlawful by not knowing her school skill level,  the family not receiving anything, and the doctors making it seem like they did all the work. Henrietta Lacks will always be remembered in a memorable way due to her strong long lasting cells.   



















Works Cited

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

Skloot, Rebecca. “Rebecca Skloot Journalist, Teacher, Author of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.” Rebecca Skloot The Immortal Life Comments, N.D., 2010, rebeccaskloot.com/the-immortal-life/. 

“'Henrietta Lacks': A Donor's Immortal Legacy.” Henrietta Lacks A Donor's Immortal Legacy , NPR, 2 Feb. 2010, . 











