Difference between College and High School Writing 



	The difference in writing in college from high school is astoundingly different. From the way it's taught to the way the students write and develop their writing. High school students are stuck in a formulaic program. While the college writing program its more free thinking, you have more freedom to express yourself. But high school does create a very solid foundation that you can apply to college writing. 

	The four years you spend in high school really teach you a lot. It teaches you lessons that you can apply for the rest of your life. But in terms of the English program it may need some work to help the students better understand the art of writing. In this article called “The Truth of High School Writing” written by Milka Mustenkova Mosley details the problem with high school english program. He states that high school writing is formulaic. What he means by this is that it’s very structural/predictable. In high school writing many of the time you are given a prompt. When you are given this prompt the teacher usually instructs you on how many paragraphs, how many sentences, and sometimes what to write about. This predictable format is usually the same. A five paragraph essay with a topic sentence and conclusion with three body paragraphs. There was no way out of it. You were stuck in that format for your whole education life. This format is also easy to grade because everybody essay was written the same. When taking that knowledge into college, students tend to have trouble in the free thinking environment. The fault lies with high school English teachers and the board. They are college educated but when they start teach they conform to the way the school board wants them to teach. In the article “Truth about Highschool writing” it states that “However, once a teacher becomes a member of the real high school world of teaching, everything changes”, “ once they start working within the prescribed curriculum that our school systems have established, they realize that there is more to teaching high school English than just fun drama improvisations and writing creative poetry.” (Mosley) This curriculum that schools put on english teachers stunt their overall writing creativity. Students then tend to be bland and just do enough to pass. They don't put any creative effort into their work. With everyone doing the same bland writing assignment, students aren’t exposed to new ways to write. Writing is like any other art and or sport, practice makes perfect. But when practicing one writing style, one format, one way of writing, it slows the process. In college you're thrusted into an environment that students tend to not be familiar with from way people act to classes. The writing in college exposes students to different writing strategies. 

	In college the atmosphere is different. It's more mature, people are more mature. Students really care about their education. This way of thinking slips into all classes. In college level classes students are exposed to so many ways to write. In biology or any science class you have to write lab reports. In highschool, students were not exposed enough to know how to write one. As said by Mosley in “Truth about HIgh School writing” it states that, “college students are required to produce very specialized writing tasks in their classes such as "lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, and essay questions based on different sources of information and specific professional models" (Gottschalk and Hjortshoj 4) (Mosley) College level writing isn’t just about writing more as some high school students believe. Three, four , five page essays.But it's not about the length. It's about content. How topics are conveyed. How well can you illiterate a topic in a high level way. Many students coming out of high school struggle with this. When they hear that they have to write an multi page essay they tend to substitute quality with quantity. They write more paragraphs that are not written well. This leaves students to struggle with college level english classes. Another thing is college allows students to express themselves through writing. When in high school the students were stuck now they have free reign on their own writing. No more generic format that the teacher has so they can grade easier. Having this really helps college students in writing having creative control over your writing allows more diverse ways to write. This diversity makes college a place where creativity can strive under rightful guidance. 

	Not everything about high school writing was egregious as portrayed. It wasn’t all bad. Highschool did provide a solid foundation of writing. This foundation at least shows of how to formulate a sentence in essay format. How to put together your ideas and at least write it down. Without this our writing will be astoundingly bad. It implemented core lessons of writing that are used to further our writing. Even in college some things taught in high school writing help with some writing. High school really had a role in every good writers education. 





Work Cited

MOSLEY, MILKA MUSTENIKOVA. The Truth about High School Writing.