The Essence of Vogue 

          In a long-accepted argument, most people will argue clothes are just clothes. That all clothes have the same purpose in providing us with; socks to cover our toes, shoes to protect our feet, and so forth. And still those same people happen to believe in another thing as well, “what you wear is how you present yourself to the world.” It’s become inevitable, especially in today’s cultural trends, not care about the way a person lives fashion wise. One way or another, people are attracted to appearance. And as shallow as that may sound, it’s what has been noticed in just about every magazine, ad, post, and even more so, digitally. Companies know what they are trying to sell and in doing so, lure people of society that follow these norms, to create this trend. Magazines with high priority such as international editorial, Vogue. 

          Vogue’s name was first introduced to the public as a women’s magazine focusing on beauty, composure, and etiquette in 1909. Over the years, it became “one of the world’s most prominent fashion magazines, heavily influencing the development of the fashion magazine industry and continues to shape modern fashion trends.” And according to The Encyclopedia Britannica, it rose in popularity and by “2009 The New York Times christened Vogue “high fashion’s bible.” A high statement that could put anyone on top of the charts. Soon at which spurred, beginnings of fashion week: a long-lasting collection of expensive clothes.  

          Creating this magazine to sell to the public is critical. With a prestigious name, it’s expected of Vogue to show its product in a diverse way:

Fashion magazines have evolved. Today, they are just as likely to tackle serious events and the social issues of the day as much as showcase the next feathered, ruffled creation. Fashion has become increasingly accessible since the time it was written—it has broadened its vision beyond society girls drowning in money and become a genre that celebrates "street style," "normcore," and being "basic." (Basu)

Due to the advancement in technology, digital is vital for every company because it’s more likely to be touch than a magazine. Going digital has also creating more ways to advertise products to appeal given the platform. In choosing to use Instagram to inform people of their ultra-luxury pet items, the network runs on pictures as the mark.:

According to Instagram, 80% of users say they follow at least one business on the app, with 60% hearing about a product and service through the platform. As of March 2017, over 120 million Instagram users visited a website, got directions, called a business, emailed or direct messaged a business. To get more tangible, at least 30% of Instagram users have purchased a product they first discovered on Instagram. Instagram analytics (via Business profiles) can provide you with data about impressions and reach per post, as well as follower demographics, which shows how your posts performed and what your audience is like. (Osman) 

Receiving information like this, helps marketing companies figure exactly what people are attracted to. Giving them to power to use this against them to invest in expensive luxuries. 

          People who use Instagram are familiar with it’s advertisements as well as it’s posts. Their audiences are looking for visual aids more than anything else. Having Instagram become the one place, where everyone can see it at any time of the day and more often, if it happens to be in the category of what people give a like to. By using pictures with various colors, people, objects, textures, and themes, people become interested. It’s all about aesthetic pleasure. 

          Given the picture of the Vogue magazine’s Instagram post, it reveals the luxury of beauty in the way they appeal to the public eye. When first going on this page, there is a pattern of bright colors and themes. And similar to this one, there is almost always a woman being displayed as she is in this picture. A woman of a tall, slim figure, posing without a smile. An elegant background followed by layering of colors as going down from the stairs. Then colors of faded mints and pastels making its way to the bottom of the tennis court. It’s a change in coming down from the stairs and then suddenly moving our eyes directly towards a woman holding two dogs. The change is drastic and grabs the audience in an instant. In one hand is a white poodle dog while in the other she is holding a black fur poodle. Behind the two poodles there is a hanging exercise bar in which appears to connect them both, as if they are to represent the weights to the machine. As we begin to move down from the woman we notice the clothing features. A two-piece set of a cropped embroidered tank of vibrant metallics, along with a matching high waisted pair of shorts and bronzed colored heels. Her skin is given no pigment like the dogs in the photograph. And moving to her leg region is a dog leash wrapped in her ankle to another dog, but a larger one than before. The dog appears obedient as it’s siting straight up balancing tennis balls on its head with a pattern of colors that match her outfit. 

           When companies try to sell products, they exaggerate parts of the image to display the overall quality. Vogue, in advertising pet’s ultra-luxury products, they’re giving an item of wellness to people’s pets. They apply pathos by showing luxury of quality and express that the same wellness should be shared by owner as by pet. Hence, the balancing of dogs and using them as symbols to represent one’s well-being. The balancing of the tennis balls is being used to further express the importance of health while luxury is transmitted through the model’s clothes of jewels and the house itself with the stairs showing elegance. By creating this pattern, Vogue has created a symbol:

Status symbols, then, are signs that identify their possessors’ place in a social hierarchy, markers of rank and prestige. When an object (or puppy!) either costs a lot of money or requires influential connections to possess, anyone who possess it must also possess matter, since it means and influences to acquire it. Advertisers have been quick to exploit the status signals that belong to body language as well. (Solomon, 527) 

Although, they seem to be taking interest in the publics pets, this post is creating a social class. When looking at the dogs, they aren’t your usual breed. In fact, the breed appears as elegant as the model herself. We never really see the focus drawn to these dogs because of the model, nor do we ever see the products of luxury being offered. If they are trying to sell a product they should have demonstrated a varies of dogs using the product. Even then, including luxury would make more sense because your pampering your pet.  The appearance of this aesthetic would have rose just as much, given the model isn’t a well-known celebrity. 

         Vogue just like many other editorials create their advertisements for a particular crowd of people. Being a fashion magazine it’s mostly for woman interested in beauty and fashion, because of it the product isn’t the only thing being shown. In some way they will continue to incorporate images in the essence of the magazine. It may just be selling a product, but presentation on a platform such as this one, to have success, must be explained through the message of picture. The message being it’s a luxury. A luxury of well-being. To those who own pets you can live in luxury like this one. Vogue, is the beauty and luxury of life and it will give them just that.  

































Work Cited



(1)       Osman, Maddy. “18 Instagram Stats Every Marketer Should Know for 2018.” Sprout Social, 12 Feb. 2018, sproutsocial.com/insights/instagram-stats/.

(2)	“Vogue on Instagram: ‘In an Age When Wellness Is the New Luxury...".” Instagram, 3 Jan. 2018, www.instagram.com/p/BdfnOoUAc0u/?hl=en&taken-by=voguemagazine.

(3)	Solomon, Jack. “Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising”. 2 Mar.2015. 

(4)	The Editors of Encyclopedia Britannica. “Vogue.” Encyclopedia Britannica, Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc.,7 Sept. 2017, www.britannica.com/topic/Vogue-American-magazine

(5)      Basu, Tanya. “Why Fashion Magazines Matter.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 12 Feb. 2015, www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2015/02/why-fashion-magazines-matter/385457/.

