Sugar Free Lollipops

	Lollipops are known to be sweet. That’s why kids love it, the problem with sugar is that they are bad if we eat too much of it. Sugar can to be bad for kids as it can cause diabetes if they eat too much it. That's why most parents don't let their children eat too much candy because of the sugar in candies. According to Dr. Mark Burhenne in the article “Am I a bad parent if I give my kids candy?,” he stated that “The increased consumption of sugar in our culture is linked to diabetes and obesity.” Burhenne is saying that children will only get more health problem if they keep eating sweets. This is causing parents to become more concern of what their kids eat. But the Chupa Chups sugar free ad is telling us that their lollipop doesn't have sugar.

Candy has always been kids’ favorite food and no matter what they will always choose candy over vegetable. In the Chupa Chups “Sugar free” ad, it’s showing us their lollipop does not have sugar that’s why the ants are ignoring it and ants are known to be attractive to sugar. This make kids and parents the perfect audience, since kids love eating candy especially the one that have lots of sugar and parents always want to control what their kids eat. Candy companies always advertise how good and tasty their candies are, except for the Chupa Chups advertisement about their lollipop called “It’s Sugar Free”. Although the message of this ad is clear with logic, it is not effective in giving us emotion since it’s only telling us that their lollipop is sugar free and it doesn’t give us any emotional scenes as why this should make us happy or sad.

	Companies usually wants to let people to know how good their product is, but this Chupa Chups ad is different. They want people to know that their product is sugar free and make people believe that their lollipop doesn’t have any sugar. This ad encourages people to try out their new sugar free lollipop and make us curious of what the lollipop taste like. The ad shows ants moving toward the grass and going inside the grass, ignoring a stripes red and white lollipop on a gray concrete floor with green grass showing on the right side of the picture. The ants seem like they have no interest with the lollipop and minding their own business. The lollipop looks like it hasn’t been eaten yet. On the bottom right, it says “It’s sugar free” with the Chupa Chups logo on top of it. 

Chupa Chups audience is anyone who likes candy, but for this advertisement their main audience is parents. They want to persuade parents to believe that this lollipop is sugar free to make the parents think that this lollipop might be healthy for the kids and buy Chupa Chups lollipop for their kids. Most parents wouldn't buy too many candies for their kids and wouldn't let their kids eat too many candies because sugar is unhealthy for kids. But this ad is telling us that this lollipop is sugar free, so it can persuade the parents to want to buy this lollipop for their kids because parents want their kids to eat stuff that doesn’t have sugar like this Chupa Chups lollipop. This means that the ad is targeting parents, since parents are the one who will decide whether to buy this product for their children or not and to let their children eat it or not. According to Bridget Murray Law, in the article “When parents try to control every little bite,” Law talks about how “junk food” is kids diet and how controlling their diet can make it worst. Parents their kids eat healthy as Law states “... childhood obesity or other food anxieties, more nutrition-focused parents are turning into food cops, monitoring every morsel their children eat.” With obesity becoming a problem, parents are trying to limit the sugar intake of their kids. This ad tries to target the parents as its audience and telling them that this candy is healthy for their children by saying “it’s sugar free.”

Most advertisers want peoples to buy their products by showing something attractive, but not this “sugar free” ad. The goal of this ad is to let people know that there are such things as a sugar free lollipop. The ads purpose is not so much as to make you buy this product, but more like why you should buy this product. With the information that the ads have, it wants the audiences to know about their products and trying to give information of their products to their audiences rather than telling their audience that their product are the best. Unlike other advertiser that are trying to play with people’s feeling, like Jack Solomon says in the article “Master of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising,” he tells us that advertiser is trying to play with our “emotions rather than to our conscious intellects.” Unlike Solomon says, this ad is more of an Informative Advertising as it wants to tell the benefits of their product and give use the information that we need. It's the opposite of what Solomon thinks of advertisers since this sugar free ad is appealing to “our conscious intellects”. When using Informative Advertising, advertiser will give information to their audiences as Sam Ashe says in the article “Example of Informative Advertising” that informative advertising tends to tell the “benefits” of the product more to get people attention. This exactly what this Chupa Chups ad is trying to do, they’re telling the audience that their product is sugar free that will benefits people’s health rather than telling people how good their product is. 

The company that created this ad is Chupa Chups and it’s the most popular lollipop brand in the world which makes the message of this ad credible. Chupa Chups was found by Enric Bernat according to Michael Eaude in the article “Enric Bernat.” And today Chupa Chups is one of the most successful lollipop company as Eaude states “Today Chupa Chups is a multinational with 2,000 employees, sales in 150 countries and an annual €500m turnover.” This shows us how big and population Chupa Chups is. By having this many sale, we can tell that the Ethos of this ad does show credibility as Chupa Chups seems to be a notable brand. 

Texts must have logic for the audience to understand message. In the Chupa Chups ad, it’s showing the ants and lollipop, this logic already tells us that this is about sugar. As we commonly known that ants are attracted to sugar. The logos of this ad are pretty straightforward. The ants ignoring the lollipop tell us that this lollipop doesn't have anything that would attract the ants like sugar. Everyone knows that ants love sugar and lollipops have lots of sugar, so ants will always go for the lollipop. This ad shows us the ants ignoring the lollipop, so this means that the lollipops is missing something and that's why the ants wouldn't go for it. Then we look at the bottom right, it says “it sugars free” and this give us a clue that the lollipop is sugar and that's why the ants are ignoring it. The logic here is that ants love sugar and yet they are ignoring this lollipop because the lollipop doesn't have any sugars in it. This makes the logic of this ad clear and simple to understand.

The ad shows us a logical image, but does it appeal to our emotion? This ad doesn't seem to appeal to our emotion as much because the lollipop or the ants is not something that would give us any feeling. The weakest part in this ad message is it lack pathos. By just showing us the lollipop and ants only give us the logical side of the message. The way that they presented the product is just to give us information that it's sugar free and it will only benefit the audience knowledge of the product. The message of this ad is not using something that would affect our emotional scenes to convince us to buy their product. 

Over all, the strength of the Chupa Chups ad message is in the logical context with the lollipop and the ants but fail to use pathos in its message. The message of this ad is to tell its audience that the lollipop is “sugar free” and nothing else. As a result, it only gives us the logic of the message. The message doesn’t make us have emotional thought which make the message not very successful.































Work Cited

Law, Bridget Murray. “When parent try to control every little bite.” NBCNEWS. 3 Sep, 2009.



Solomon, Jack. “Master of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising” Signs of Life in the U.S.A.: Reading in Popular Culture for Writer. 6th ed. Ed. Sonia Maasik and Jack Solomon. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2009. 523-534.

Ashe-Edmunds, Sam. “Example of Informative Advertising” Chron. 



Burhenne, Mark. “Am I a bad parent if I give my kids candy?” CNN. 30 Oct, 2013.



Eaude, Michael. “Enric Bernat” The Guardian. 2 Jan, 2004.













