
Ever wondered if someone was in an abusive relationship? One in three women experience domestic violence during their lifetime. While one in four men experience domestic violence. Around 4.7 million women in the U.S. experience physical violence every year. However, altogether 10 million men and women are abused every year. Abuse is not physical or controlling, it can be emotional, verbal, or financial abuse. 

Emotional abuse is hard to recognize for most victims. Emotional abuse is an attempt to control another person using emotions as their weapon. Augusten Borrughs explains in his passage “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not”, that someone who loves would never call their significant other fat, ugly, or lazy. Abusive partners seek to control self-esteem. They also tend to try and make others feel less than what they are. Their main focus is to only allow you to do thing that benefit them. Forms of emotional abuse range from accusations, blame, and constantly checking up. 

Another kind of abuse is verbal abuse. Verbal abuse is a form of violence that occurs when someone uses words or body language to inappropriately criticize another person. Verbal abuse is not just name calling and belittling, it also includes manipulation. For example, an intimate partner could purposely try to provoke a reaction by saying information that they know will make you mad and continue to do so. Others use silence as a form of verbal abuse. Your partner may also use a form of abuse discussed in the passage call “subtraction”. When a partner uses the subtraction method, he does not make remarks at all, no compliments, or gestures of support. Verbal abuse is intentional manipulation of other people’s emotions. 

Financial abuse is the final form of abuse. Financial abuse is the illegal or unauthorized use of a person’s property, money, pension book, or any other valuable often to obtain power. In the passage Burroughs stated, “Love does not make you deposit your pay check into its bank account”, many men in abusive relationships may try to control the whole relationship including the funds. He may try to control all the money or force their partner to spend majority of the amount on them. A common expression used to describe men that takes advantage of their women’s finances is “my women is my mom syndrome”. That means woman in his life takes care of all the bills while he does nothing but budgets the money. Financial abuse is a big reason why most victims have trouble getting out of their abusive relationships. 

In conclusion, abuse is not just physical it ranges from emotional, verbal, financial, and many more. Detecting domestic violence is often hard to recognize but is easier to notice as an outsider looking in on the situation. Many people try to justify their abuse by saying “he didn’t mean it”, “that’s his way of saying I love you”, Or “he didn’t mean it like that”. However, the truth is he did mean it, that is not how you say, “I love you”, and that is exactly what he meant. Abuser say and do exactly what they mean to. Although emotional, verbal, and financial abuse are the most common kinds, there are plenty other kinds. If you or anyone you know is in an abusive relationship, please seek immediate help. 



