“Tobacco use kills approximately 440,000 Americans each year, with one in every five U.S. deaths the result of smoking.” (Volkow).  According to the research report conducted by the National Institute on Drug Abuse: Tobacco Addiction. “An estimated 70.9 million Americans aged 12 or older report current use of tobacco.” (Volkow).Tobacco can be very addictive to many individuals because it contains a component called Nicotine, nicotine is the primary reason for tobacco being addictive but it also contains different chemicals “ 60.1 million (24.2% of the population) were current cigarette smokers, 13.3 million( 5.4%) smoke cigars, 8.1 million (3.2% )used smokeless tobacco, and 2 million (0.8%) smoke pipes confirming that tobacco is one of the most widely abused substance in the United States.”(Volkow). Tobacco is a drug that’s constantly used by individuals who don’t understand the risks it could cause. Would people still smoke tobacco if they knew how dangerous it really was? Well tobacco is one of the most popular drug that affects the individual health dramatically.
	The medical consequences for smoking tobacco are deadly, they have lifetime effects on humans, according to  Nora D. Volkow,  author of “National Institute on Drug abuse:Tobacco Addiction.”  The use of tobacco harms the organs on the human body. Tobacco has killed more individuals than other drugs, suicide, homicide, alcohol, car accidents, and ALDS combined (Volkow). Smoking has been found to a big factor on the cause of cancer and lung diseases. Many people who use tobacco develop cancer and end up passing away because of it. Julia is a 58 year old women from Mississippi who was diagnosed with colon cancer at the age of 49. Julia got addicted to smoking a box of cigarettes a day, she was carefree about the consequences of her smoking. At the age of 49 she was diagnosed with colon cancer which is a typical disease when it comes to smokers. Julia suffered from cramps,gas, diarrhea, and vomiting when she first started to develop this disease. “I will never forget that day. I was so sick. They found the tumor in my colon and rushed me to the hospital,” said Julia. The tumor completely blocked her intestines, which can be life threatening.” (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention “Foremost among the cancers caused by tobacco use is lung cancer-cigarette smoking has been linked to about 90 percent of all cases of lung cancer, the number one cancer killer of both men and women.”(Volkow). She also found that tobacco leads to lung disease. The healthy lung of a nonsmoker is nothing compared to a smokers lung. Volkow report adds two pictures of the human lungs, the healthy lung has a perfect light brown color the is all in one piece. While the smoker lung is sticky, brown tar coats. The lungs are highly affected because of smoking and causes a lot of deaths to smokers.
	In another report by E-Facts, Tobacco: Advice Smokers On Health Effects found the quitting smoking is very difficult because of how addictive the chemicals in it are. These chemicals are very addictive to the human body but are also very dangerous. In its finding it describes all the ways tobacco could affect our health. According to EFacts one of the most popular respiratory lung disease that tobacco causes is “Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease” (COPD).COPD makes it really hard for people to breathe, as well as not supplying the body with enough oxygen to be fit. The report also states that smokers will also experience bronchitis and pneumonia. According to the finding in the report tobacco affects the health in multiple ways such as respiratory diseases, vascular diseases, and cancer. “ Tobacco smoking is a very strong risk factor for vascular diseases including angina, heart attack, stroke and peripheral vascular disease.” (E-Facts). Dying from a heart attack is twice as more likely to happen to smokers then those non smokers. “Smoking is also among the top causes of insufficient blood flow in the legs: more than 90% of patients with lower limb amputation are cigarette smokers.” (E-Facts). While an individual smokes they are consuming 70 chemicals that are known to cause cancer. Throughout the article the author explains all the ways tobacco can be bad for our health. 

	However tobacco does not only affect that individuals life but those around them as well. This is called secondhand smoke which is what happen when you Inhale the smoke of someone nearby who is smoking. When this happens it is like if you were smoking as well , according to a report from the Surgeon General, The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: “Secondhand Smoke and what It means to you.” No matter how little of the smoke we breathe in it can still be dangerous for our health, secondhand smoke can cause heart disease and lung cancer. As stated in the report secondhand smoke consists of more than 4,000 chemicals that are toxic for the human body. Being around a smoker makes a person cough repeatedly this could be dangerous for people with asthma. In the website Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, they provide real stories of people who suffered from any types of effects that come from smoking. One particular story was Ellie a 57 year old woman from Florida, who had a asthma attack triggered by secondhand smoke at the age of 35. Ellie never smoked a day in her life. “I had trouble breathing.I was wheezing.It was terrifying.” Ellie had several trips to the hospital when she was diagnosed with asthma that she contracted from her work place. Ellie’s life was turned around because of this she can now not be in public doing concerts because just breathe of secondhand smoke can trigger her an attack. In the report “National Institute on Drug abuse:Tobacco Addiction.” it also talks about secondhand smoke. The author Nora D. Volkow explains that secondhand smoke causes approximately 3,000 lungs cancer deaths each year.  

	Tom Seymour published an article on July 2017 that was called “ The reasons why smoking is bad for you” on the Medical News Today website. According to his article smoking is responsible for a number or diseases. Seymour reports that smoking reduces the life of a male by twelve years and a woman's life by eleven years. Mr.Seymour explains the effects tobacco has in the human body under the brain,bones,Cardiovascular and immune system,lungs, mouth, reproduction,skin and cancers. According to Seymour tobacco increases the likelihood of a smoker to develop a stroke in the brain that can cause really bad damage and even death. The use of tobacco as well breaks down our bones and makes them weaker and fragile. The cardiovascular and immune system are both in dangerous when it comes to tobacco because it can cause an infection and serious lifelong diseases. Some of the lungs defects that happen because of smoking can take years to be noticed and are by then too late to take care of. The loss of teeth, gum disease, and stained teeth are also a con when tobacco is involved. Women smokers can also find it very hard to become pregnant when they are do end up pregnant there's a big chance that they will pass down many illness to the baby, more so if they smoke while being pregnant. Therefore, when it comes to reproduction male smokers are also affected because smoking can cause damage in blood vessels that are directed to the in the penis which will eventually damage the sperm and the sperm count in men. The skin ages about ten to twenty years when it comes to smoking. 

	In the research reports and websites they all explain how tobacco is very bad for the human health. Individuals have to understand that there is consequences to smoking and they did get help to quite. 

Work-Cited Page 



  



Seymour, Tom. “Why Is Smoking Bad for You?” Medical News Today, MediLexicon International, 27 July 2017, .



“Tips From Former Smokers ®.” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Nov. 2017,  .

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General. Secondhand Smoke What It Means to You. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Coordinating Center for Health Promotion, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2006. 



U.s Department of Health and Human Services. National Institute of Health: NIH Publication Number 09-4342, Printed July 1998, Reprinted August 2001, Revised July 2006,Revised June 2009  







