



Political Climate 



	In the article, “Political Climate” is freaking most of us out by Kristen Jordan Shamus, Detroit Free Press, Shamus discusses the American Psychological Association started the annual “Stress in America: Coping with Change.” Due to the changes many people are stressing out than before. For example people stress out about money wise, work, and the election that happen not too long ago for the presidential election. The presidential election was a huge stress for peoples due to the results of who’s going to be president.According to the article, “ In addition to the economy, work and money stress, which annually are in the top three stressors, 57% of Americans polled in January said that the political climate is a very significant or somewhat significant source of stress.” This is referring to that work, money, and the election is a cause of stress increase for people. Democrats and Republicans stress about the election, about 72% democrats vs. 26% say the outcome of the election is a significant of stress. From the article, “ Franklin Dohanyos, a 58-year-old conservative from Royal Oak, said he voted for President Trump and had high hopes for his presidency. But three weeks into the Trump administration, Dohanyos is feeling insetted, especially with the resignation this week of Michael Flynn, Trump’s national security advisor, amid allegations he lied about interacting with a Russian ambassador,” (Dohanyos, pg 1). This shows how Dohanyos is questioning about his votes on President Trump. He believed that Trump was going to do as he said but he didn’t when he was elected as President. This isn’t the only thing that causes stress for people but sometimes people are thinking too much which lead them to stress out about the Political Climate. As the article stated, "They’re trying to comprehend complex issues that they haven’t had to watch on a play-by-play basis before, like this whole situation with Russia. We haven’t had to try to guess on a play-by-play basis before and feeling like we’re purposely being manipulated throughout the process it’s very stressful.” This is showing that people don’t think about what their hearing or their getting unrightful news about what’s going on. Many people get their information from social media such as Facebook, the internet, or their daily television. This lead them to stress out by trying to prove something that is wrong with facts. Throughout all of this I believe that money, work, and the presidential is very stressful. During the time of election you’ll hear majoring of people arguing about who to choose and all types of violence going on around. I usually get most of my information from the internet or my daily television at home. I believe that it’s very important to keep up with the current political conversation because you need to know what’s going on around in the world or just in general. 

	











Work Cited 



Shamus, Kristen Jordan. “Poll: 'Political Climate' Is Freaking Most of Us Out.” USA Today, Gannett Satellite Information Network, 16 Feb. 2017, www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2017/02/16/poll-two-thirds-americans-stressed-future-us-politics/97986834/.

