                                         Pollution 

     According to the article “Report: Pollution Kills 3 Times More than AIDS, TB And Malaria Combined” by Susan Brink, “Pollution is responsible for 15 times more deaths than wars and all other forms of violence. Exposure to polluted air, water and soil caused nine million in 2015, according to a report published Thursday in The Lancet.” This explains that pollution is horrible for our health and also for the environment.  My uncle who got cancer because of the polluted environment. He was living near the industries and the chemicals that were being released from it , really affected his health. Everytime he goes outside of the house he needs to wear the mask or need to carry out the oxygen with him. There are also many other people who are living like him,but are still suffering from the pollution.They really need special care in the different surroundings. Pollution causes many diseases such as lung and heart diseases, cancer, asthma and even it affects the newborn child.What are the reasons causing the pollution? The reason behind this is,chemicals burning from the factories which leads to the releases of hazardous gases. But many people would say factories are really helpful in making new gadgets for the future, in reality, they are the reason why people are dying from such diseases.

    Over the decades we are seeing new changes that are happening in our environment. Back then in mid of the 1900s, there weren't a lot of vehicles, and people were living safer lives. But as you can see nowadays  every person has their own vehicle and you can think from this idea how much these vehicles are polluting our environment.With the air pollution our ozone layer is getting affected. It is the layer that protects us from the UV rays that causes cancer. So imagine if the ozone layer keep getting depleted then what will happen to the world. 

        According to the Union Of Concerned Scientists, the research shows that " In 2013, transportation contributed more than half of the carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides, and almost a quarter of the hydrocarbons emitted into our air."To aware people; to make our environment safe and clean, there are suggestions that we should use bicycles more or the CNG vehicles.  According to the Environmental Protection Agency, “CNG can reduce carbon-monoxide emissions by 90 to 97 percent and nitrogen-oxide emissions by 35 to 60 percent when compared with gasoline.” Many countries around the world are using these vehicles to make our environment a safer place to live.

    Not only the vehicles are causing the air pollution, but industries also play an essential role in making our nature more worst. The release of many different chemicals from the industries are causing dangerous diseases such as asthma. Air pollution is also the reason for climate change and even global warming is caused due to the pollution.In 2012, a study was done by World Health Organization (WHO); approximately 3.7 million people died from outdoor urban and rural sources; compared to the data collected in 2008 which was 1.3 million deaths. This huge difference made in just four years,really taught us that we are responsible for such diseases to happen. From this,we need to think about the outcomes of this for upcoming years.   

     The polluted environment is a major problem nowadays. It is causing many premature deaths which are not good. The reason behind the premature deaths explained by the American Heart Association is because of the heart diseases caused by air pollution and also the breathing problem that we face. Developing countries in the world are suffering these premature deaths because they don't get the clean water to drink; also there is lack of experienced doctors to treat them from the disease.Many reports have shown that there are many new health outcomes came in front such as low birth weight, small for gestational age and preterm birth, and also diabetes.  

         Air pollution is  the reason behind the deaths of many lives, but  there are also  light pollution, water pollution, soil pollution that are dangerous to the surroundings. Water pollution is caused when we throw items in the water such as trash, clothes or other materials. It contaminates the water and some people who can't afford much, they get water from the rivers. The water they drink is not safe because it doesn't come to them purified and later on they are diagnosed with different disease such as cholera. Many of the disease that come from water have no solutions or cannot be treated. We need to think that not only humans but other species who are living underwater or drink water from the rivers are also getting into the trouble.Some industries waste also goes directly into the water and make it more toxic for a living being to drink.According to the Renewable Resources Coalition Organization,"The high levels of nutrients in these sources end up in bodies of water and promote algae and weed growth, which can make the water undrinkable and depleted oxygen causing aquatic organisms to die.” However, we are still continuously avoiding such small details, even if there are new laws introduced to prevent the water pollution from happening. 

         Soil pollution is caused when we use pesticides on the crops.The soil is also polluted with the chemicals for the plants to grow which can also cause some diseases.  The water used for the crops also come from the river which got polluted from the trash thrown in it.  We also need the sunlight, but because of the defected ozone layer, the UV rays are affecting the crop production. The chemicals in the atmosphere are leaving a significant impact on the world.  So this whole cycle of air, water and soil pollution is related to each other which describes the reason behind the deaths. The Renewable Resource Coalition  Organization also explains that "Contaminated land and soil can cause various problems on the skin, respiratory problems, and even different kinds of cancers.” Any kind of pollution has negative impact on our lives , and we cannot get treated with it easily.

     People are aware of all the pollution listed above but not everyone has heard the light pollution, and what harms it can cause to the health of people. What is Light pollution? Light pollution is caused by the artificial light that is not directed from the sun such as the lamp lights, electronic billboards, car and street lights. According to the Renewable Resource Coalition Organizations, "Light pollution is caused by the prolonged and excessive use of artificial lights at night that can cause health problems in humans and disrupt natural cycles, including wildlife activities." This also has a major impact on the animals and other species as  "Light pollution can interfere with these natural behaviors and cycles, causing a decrease in wildlife populations." This explains how dangerous the light pollution can be for the other species.Because light pollution is also putting other lives on danger because of the widespread of disease it causes. 

     Many people are not aware with this idea that these factors of pollution can leave a significant impact on our lives such as there would be a lack of food, and other resources ,if we are not becoming  careful right now. Some people have this idea in their mind that the government is not taking any serious step to stop these deaths from happening, in reality, the government has made organizations to clean the rivers time to time. The truth is that people are not making it their responsibility. As the pollution is increasing, so does the problems related to it. Protecting the environment has become a tough problem to handle then we can even imagine. If we try to save our environment from now on then we are able to live peacefully otherwise there are chances that 6/10 people would die because of the pollution. This way we are also going to lose the economy too. 



 Reference:

Brink, Susan. “Report: Pollution Kills 3 Times More than AIDS, TB And Malaria Combined.” NPR, NPR, 19 Oct. 2017, www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/10/19/558821792/report-pollution-kills-3-times-more-than-aids-tb-and-malaria-combined. 

“The Natural-Gas Alternative.” CNG Cars - Consumer Reports,.

“7 Million Premature Deaths Annually Linked to Air Pollution.” WHO, World Health Organization,.

“Cars, Trucks, and Air Pollution.” Union of Concerned Scientists,.

Air Pollution and Heart Disease, Stroke,.

Essick, Peter. “Air Pollution Causes, Effects, and Solutions.” Causes, Effects, and Solutions, 17 Oct. 2017,.

Kelly, Frank J., and Julia C. Fussell. “Air Pollution and Public Health Emerging Hazards and Improved Understanding of Risk.” Environmental Geochemistry and Health, Springer Netherlands, 2015,.

“Pollution Causes & Effects: How Does Wide Scale Pollution Happen?” Renewable Resources Coalition, 13 Dec. 2016,.



















