



What are the issues that we now face about American education? 



	Have you ever question about the education your learning? What’s so important about American education? In the United States education are public, private, or home schools. There are standards test overall of the education through K-12 school systems. These standards test are to determine the education level in school. In the United States high school students are required to take standards test to determine where students stand and for evaluation progress learning education. The standard test taken from students in the United States are to determine where United States stand in the education throughout the countries. 

	In the United States majority of high school, there’s classes for higher education for students who believe they can go more beyond their learning. Students are required to take classes that are at the same level. For students who are more advance their taking classes that challenge them more such as honor classes. Mainly every students who attend to school in high school have to take the standard test. But are the classes and teaching really helping students to pass the standards test. In many cases students are stressing out because of the works teachers give students. Students have stacks of homeworks that are due that stresses them out. Due to lack of short days to do homeworks students are pressure which leads to dropouts, failing classes, or they have family problems at home which leads them to not concentrate in school. This shows that American faces issues with education. Due to student dropout this lower the American education which decreases education and also for the education level in United States. Students who dropout may be stressing due to school works or issues outside of school. However, this lead students to fail the students education learning standards. Students who don’t attend to school can affect American education learning. Students who don’t show up to school tend to fail classes, tests, or even major tests. In the article, “What’s Holding Back American Teenagers?” by Laurence Steinberg stated, “The measure of participation was based on how often students attended school, arrived on time, and showed up for class.” This show how students who don’t attend to school may fail school and education learning. This can result to the decrease of education learning in California. Which can decrease the score based on education throughout the countries. 

Aside from this are teachers doing their job or teaching students accurately to help make sure student understand the courses that being taught. Are teacher teaching students to pass the standards test that will help benefit the school learning or even for the students. Most teachers don’t help students who need help, they tend to focus more on those who are scoring high in the class. In most cases it’s not really the teacher but the students. The students don’t want to learn but want to go to class to mess up others students who wants to learn. So this is why sometimes teachers don’t pay attention or help students who don’t want to benefit their education. If students don’t care about their education teacher careless to teach. According to an article, “ If there’s a simmering rage out there, it’s because we’re pressured to hold back kids from where we really need to take them,” said DeJong, a 26-year veteran who has taught in Caledonia and Grand Rapids Christian schools. This shows how some teachers are limited to the amount of power to help teach students. If teachers help focus on every students it will help benefit the education academic. This will help make the learning grow more and students will pass the standards test more. 

From articles that I read in class are based on academic education. Why American are failing or having issues on education. Also why other states are doing better with their teaching education to help provide students to pass the standards test. In many cases Finland’s School are showing success in academic education system. Their improving their learning education and are topping high in tests. Anu Partanen a Finnish journalist living in the United States, stated in the article she wrote, “What Americans Keep Ignoring About Finland’s School Success”, “Finland’s success is especially intriguing because Finnish schools assign less homework and engage children in more creative play.” Partanen talks about how Finland students improved more on academic education. Due to less homework and more focus on the students, the students were able to concentrate well in school and able to pass standard test. Not just that but to score high on standard test. 

Partanen reflecting this on schools in the United States because teachers tend to give students more homework assignment which stress them out. Which their not able to focus on learning and concentrate in schools. Teachers aren’t providing the right materials for students so they can score high on standards test. In Anu Partanen article, Pasi Sahlberg stated from his point of view. “How can you keep track of students’ performance if you don’t test them constantly? How can you improve teaching if you have no accountability for bad teachers or merit pay for good teachers?...How do you foster competition and engage the private sector?.” Sahlberg saying that Americans teacher are more focus on teaching students to focus on competition instead of teaching them to do the right things. Also teachers in America are more focus on the money instead of student education. But the main thing is that since Americans are teaching students to compete this lead to bad score. Students won’t result with high test scores. Sahlberg also stated, “And while Americans love to talk about competition, Sahlberg quotes a line from Finnish writer named Samuli Paronen: “Real winner do not compete.” It’s hard to think of a more un-American idea, but when it comes to education, Finland’s success shows that Finnish attitude might have merit.” Sahlberg is saying that the education policy isn’t like American idea. Finland education policy isn’t all about competition between other school in Finland or teachers but their all about cooperation. Which this leads them to do better job and having students to score higher on standard tests. If American stop focusing on competition it will help better the schools and teacher to help educate the students, which will leads to more benefit for American education and less issues. 

Another article that I read in class was “Anti- Intellectualism: Why We hate the Smart Kids” by Grant Penrod, Arizona State University student and second-place winner of the Devil Contest, which is about society not like nerds or geeks who have more academic intelligence. Students who have more academic knowledge faces issues such as judgement or bullying. But due to the facts that the students who are bullying the nerds aren’t focusing on their own learning academic. They’re more focus on the smarter kids to bring them down. This is what leads to issues Americans face with education. In Grant Penrod article one student stated, “ Man how I hate nerds… If I ever had a tommygun with me...I would probably blowed each of their… heads off,” (Penrod). This shows how nerds are executive and faces judgment. How those who see nerds differently instead of trying to combine together to make things better in schools. Due to issues like this nerds are excluded from social activities. In high school, Anti- Intellectualism seems to occur more. Those who are smarter will face stereotype and be unlikeable. He stated, “The trend to dislike intellectuals stems at least in part from an inescapable perception that concern for grades and test scores excludes the coexistence of normal social activities”(Penrod). This shows how the stereotype of nerds are seen as. This results to learning education that will decreases. Society looks down upon nerds which results in education system. 

	In conclusion, the issues that we now faced with American education can results in too much homeworks to stress out students. Students not willing the learned in school and teachers not willing to help those who don’t want to learn. Students not coming to school which can lead them to fail in school academic tests.Students who dropout of school tend to decreases the score for education. School education system focusing on competing instead of teaching students to be more accurate on learning. Anu Partanen stating how Finland education learning are more accurate for students to pass test and score higher on academic testing. Finland schools giving student less homework so they don’t have to stress about it and their not about competition but to help each other. Grant Penrod stating the stereotype society see towards nerds. They issues nerds faces and learning education. The way society are treating nerds and they are being excluded from the social activities.

























































Work Cited:



 Steinberg, Laurence. “Forget Pre-K. American High Schools Are a Disaster.” Slate Magazine, 11 Feb. 2014, www.slate.com/articles/life/education/2014/02/high_school_in_america_a_complete_disaster.html.



Murray, Dave. “Frustrated Teachers Say Profession Is Losing Respect, They're Treated like Scapegoats.” MLive.com, 7 Mar. 2011, www.mlive.com/news/grand-rapids/index.ssf/2011/03/frustrated_teachers_say_profes.html.















