His Views on the Vietnam War 

	Martin Luther King Jr. was one of the most revolutionary men of our times. He paved the way for civil rights activism back in the 1960’s.  He was known for his humanity and the love he had for everybody regardless of the skin color they had. A man that wanted equality for all but most importantly, he was someone who wanted equality in all senses and platforms. MLK Jr spoke out against the Vietnam War in his, Why I am opposed to the War in Vietnam sermon on April 30th, 1967, in Riverside Church, New York. Dr. King’s speech attracted all kinds of opposed press and political leaders. This speech was one of Martin Luther King Jr’s least known speeches. It was different than what he usually preaches. The speech still had to do with the civil rights movement but it was intertwined with the Vietnam War topic as well. Apart from demonstrating to us Dr. King’s opposition of the Vietnam War, it also demonstrates us how racism is factored in with the poor and the military. 

	Dr King had been quiet about the Vietnam War before 1967, but one day he had enough. Dr. King says, “Now, let me make it clear in the beginning, that I see this war as an unjust, evil, and futile war. I preach to you today on the war in Vietnam because my conscience leaves me with no other choice… There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal."  Martin Luther

 King Jr. believed that the reason civil rights basically moved backwards rather than moving forward was because of the Vietnam War. He had 7 major reasons why he opposed the war. The first being that people a few years back from 1967 were so enthusiastic to make a change economically for both backs and whites and the build up to the war ruined it all. All those resources went to killing people in the war rather than helping out the struggling in America. 

	Dr. King’s second and third reasons were some of the most eye opening and real reasons in his sermon. Dr. King says that the war in being advertised and that people see young black and white boys die side by side to defend the country but, “we realize that they would hardly live on the same block in Chicago or Atlanta.”  It is like a big slap to the face to someone who has seen that relations between whites and blacks in the US, and they see that they are not exactly the best. African Americans legit couldn’t be who they wanted to be at home in the states, try to gain a better life through education or even working, like white people were able to do.

 “As I have walked among the desperate, rejected, and angry young men, I have told them that Molotov cocktails and rifles would not solve their problems. I have tried to offer them my deepest compassion while maintaining my conviction that social change comes most meaningfully through non-violent action; for they ask and write me, "So what about Vietnam?" They ask if our nation wasn't using massive doses of violence to solve its problems to bring about the changes it wanted.” 2 Dr. King was in that time the patron of peace and for him to walk in the ghettos and asking them to not fall into the trap was wrong of him if he really never touched on the subject before. Dr. King’s heart and conscience would not forgive him if he did not speak for the people that suffered because of the Vietnam War but also for the people who suffered back in the states. King was mad because he was being praised for non-violence against segregation but when he said to apply the same to the Vietnamese people he was legit condemned and cursed. 

Perhaps another reason that made Martin Luther King Jr. speak out against the war was his will to live up to the accomplishment of winning the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964. The Nobel Peace Prize is the highest token of appreciation towards a person who has made social change. A person that has worked hard all their lives to have a major change like the civil rights movement. This is where Dr. King Speaks about his religious reasons for opposing the Vietnam War.  

“Beyond the calling of race or nation or creed is deeply concerned especially for his suffering and helpless and outcaste children, I come tonight to speak for them.”  Justifying that the reason he is speaking at that moment is that nobody is listening to the Vietnamese people. In this part Dr. King Speaks about the strain that it is being a human being. Because it’s understandable, that as a greater nation, the U.S. should want to help nations in despair, but not by trying to force it. Not by hurting people. The U.S. really is not helping them they are just making it worse. Also that when the Vietnamese declared themselves independent in 1945, even quoting the declaration of independence in their freedom document, the U.S did not want to claim them what so ever. America didn’t help at all, only in the sense of sending more troops to “help”. For the Vietnamese people to be free their suffering must end from both sides for things to move toward a brighter future. 

Towards the end of his Why I am opposed to the War in Vietnam speech, Dr. King preaches how it is important for, “our loyalties must become ecumenical rather than sectional.” 3 To basically be inclusive of all points of view and to not just try to implement and force one. Dr. King ends his sermon by saying that he opposes the because of his love for The United States of America. Saying that with, “faith we will be able to speed up the day when the lion and the lamb will lie down together, and every man will sit under his own vine and fig tree, and none shall be afraid because the words of the Lord have spoken it." Dr. King wants unity and by fighting this war peacefully or not fighting it at all, everybody will be at peace. The key is to leave people in their countries alone, because people being allowed to be themselves in peace is the key.

As a result of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr’s sermon, one of the most political sermons he has ever given, a lot of responses sparked. Both good and bad. The New York Times wrote a piece titled Civil Rights: King Sees a Dual Mission by Gene Roberts, where the writer critiques Dr. King’s input on the Civil War. For one, I see that the tone of this article is all about trying to make Dr. King seem like a hypocrite. That because Dr. King is anti-war he is going to forget his civil rights movement efforts down in the south. Roberts says, “All of this means that southern Negroes, who have come to look toward Dr. King for aid in their civil rights battles, can expect little of it this year” Making it seem like Dr. King is going to lose all the resources and the support. But Dr. King said and said again that for things to get better in the south the US has to basically stop sending men and resources to Vietnam. This is trying to foreshadow that Dr. King’s opposition to the war may cost him even his black supporters for the civil rights movement. Roberts even got an African American grocer statement that said, “I am a veteran and I support country’s position in Vietnam.”5 And that is the typical reaction of the majority of people according to Roberts. To me it seemed that the audience this article was trying to target was African Americans or sympathetic whites that were iffy about their own stance about King’s stance on Vietnam. Basically trying to push them towards being against Dr. King. 

As expressed, not all responses written about Dr. King’s sermon are negative though. Some actually just reiterated everything he said, even quoting segments from his speech. An example of a response like this is the article, also from The New York Times titled Dr. King Accuses Johnson on War. In fact I feel like this response actually touches subjects that I still have not seen touched by other articles. It stated that, “The civil rights leader asserted that United States policy on Vietnam had been wrong since 1946”  and the author of this article (whose name I could not find) just started laying down all these contradictory statements about the United States and their relations with Vietnam. The author said, “When France lost its war, the United States selected one dictator after another to prevent Ho Chi Minh from becoming head of all Vietnam.” 6 That is mainly what the United States wanted for Vietnam. For Vietnam not to have their independence because you know, the United States has to “save” everyone. This article was more informative rather than taking a stance against or for Dr. King. The title made it seem like we were about to read a Martin Luther King Jr. should stick to trying to save the south and their problems article. Rather than bashing Dr. King, we get an article that seems like it is stating the facts and letting the general public choose their own opinion. 

		It can be inferred that before looking into any articles I did think that mostly minorities would agree with Dr. King’s opposition on The Vietnam War. But the newspaper article Negro Officer Opposes War Protests: Disagrees with Dr. King Finds Bias in Draft. By R.W. Apple Jr. proves my thought wrong. This article talks about Captain Earle McCaskill, “an assistant judge advocate in the Ninth Infantry Division, is one of 50,000 American Negroes who have served or are serving in South Vietnam…..he is an officer- a military lawyer- and he has a relatively uncommon job.”  He is clearly an educated man and he also claims that majority of the African Americans that are fighting in Vietnam feel the same way Captain McCaskill feels. His feelings are that Dr. King does not understand what the African American soldiers are doing over in Vietnam. Captain McCaskill says, “Dr. King may have a point when he says we are spending billions of dollars in Vietnam that could be used to help the impoverished Negroes in the cities.” 7 but then he backed up with a lot of sense and logic at the time. Captain McCaskill said that what makes him think that because of Dr. King’s plea to end the war is going to want to make the government give the money to the inner-cities for the poor. He said, “They didn’t appropriate the money to help the Negroes before the war. Why would they now?”7 That statement put Dr. King’s sermon in another perspective. Because for these men they see no other way out from poverty so they take this opportunity. Regarding the biased Captain McCaskill sees in the draft was just that all-white draft boards were discriminatory sometimes. Basically saying that there are not enough African Americans in the war. McCaskill also mentions that racism between the troops is almost nonexistent and that Dr. King’s speech has caused a wider divide between African Americans and liberal whites. 

In contrast to the last response articles that have been analyzed I have chosen an article that talks about numbers and statistics of who agrees and who does not agree with Dr. King’s speech. The results are not that different than what one thinks. In the Newspaper Article Dr. Kings Possible Influence by Louis Harris 73% of the American people disagree with Martin Luther King Jr. That is still a big number. But something else that interesting is that 48% of African American people do not agree with Dr. King. That means that more than half of African Americans do agree with Dr. King. What these results suggested back then was, “that Dr. King may well have within his power a capability of influencing between, a third to one-half of all Negro voters behind a candidate he might endorse for President in 1968.”  So we see that support from African Americans is not completely gone. But it is still baffling to see African Americans were so divided because of this. It’s upsetting seeing stuff like that from the 60’s because up until like a month ago all I have known from the 60’s is that it was a great time for change. 

What I do know is that right now compared to back then we see people from all walks of life being extremely united. Specifically African Americans, I have never seen so much unity. It is weird to think that we are kind of living sort of like in a new civil rights era. Even though segregation and racism are in no means as prominent as it was in those times, if we read between the lines it is still there. Except now in more, I guess formal in some ways. Like mass incarceration, and how hard it still is for a person of color to get out of that inner-city environment. Something else that is crazy is seeing how the press targeted different types of audiences in almost each newspaper article. The majority targeted African Americans and it did not matter what side of the argument they were on, the press just wanted them on their side.  Either way, we would not be having conversations like these without speeches from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He, in my opinion is who I look up to when it comes to equality and when I seek ways to go about injustice.  





	