Final Paper
	The period of time during the 1960s witnessed the peak of modern liberalism and advancement toward equality in America, including the passing of several congressional acts that granted not only African American, but also other minority groups, numerous important civil rights. One of the most famous civil rights activists of this period is Martin Luther King Jr., who dedicated his whole life fighting racial segregation, inequality and poverty before his assassination in 1968. Toward his final years, King also focused more on the on-going Vietnam War, a political conflict influenced by the Cold War that took place in Vietnam. Later, in 1967, he had given a sermon on this controversial issue, titled "Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam”, in which he called out the fallacy of America’s participation in the war and addressed the reason why he was agaisnt it; this sermon, of course, had raised mixed responses from the public.

	At the very beginning of the speech, King had emphasized that the subject of the speech, which was his opposition to the war in Vietnam, was an important subject, and “one of the most controversial issues confronting our nation”. He then affirmed that he saw this war as an “unjust, evil and futile war”, and encouraged everyone to seek for the truth, because he believed that the truth would set them free from all of their doubts and hesitation. King then addressed how almost fifteen million Americans explicitly opposed the war, yet there were still millions that seemed to be unable to voice their opposition themselves. By mentioning this, King brought us to an important point: it was time for Americans to break the silence; to stand and to speak for what they belived, as they “bear the greatest responsibility, and entered a conflict that has exacted a heavy price on both continents”. 

	To support his opposition toward the war, King mentioned seven major reasons. The first one is how America was spending too much on a war that didn’t seem to have promising result. The government fund, supposedly should have been used to support poor Americans regardless of races through the Poverty Program, was being invested in the war effort. The second reason is that the war wasn’t only taking hope away from the poor, but even more than that; there were lives of young American men being wasted away. Instead of manipulating the racial segregation that could have been fixed more thoroughly, the government was more focused on manipulating the poor - sending them away, forcing them to fight a war thousands of miles away from home, yet still managing to glorify that cruel process. The next reason involves America’s inconsistent support of the non-violent movement; while a lot of people supported the non-violent sit-ins and marches to resolve racial conflicts throughout the country, they couldn’t do the same with the foreign conflict going on in Vietnam. Next off, King reminded his audience that all Americans, including himself, should always fight for peace, because it was such an obvious responsibility that we shouldn’t even be asking why. He asserted that everyone who had been under “the curse of the war”, no matter what side they were on, had the right to be heard and seen. Then, King moved on to telling the audience the truth about the so-called righteous war they were fighting: from how Vietnam just recently declared its independence from imperialists countries, to the fact that America was actually supporting a dictator and a general who fought against their own people. This information was, of course, covered up by the press and the government. For his following reason, he once again demonstrated the brutal reality of the war in Vietnam, to criticize how America was moving away from a person-oriented society toward a thing-oriented society. To further clarify what he meant by “thing-oriented society”, King said, “When machines and computers, profit motives and property rights are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, militarism and economic exploitation are incapable of being conquered.” King proceeded to explain how we couldn’t just play the initial act of the good side forever - America was committing inhumane war crimes in Vietnam, and that couldn’t be reasoned as spreading justice, love or wisdom. This act of spending money on the military would eventually lead America to what King called “a spiritual death”.

	Lastly, King called upon Americans to get back the revolutionary spirit, to form a genuine revolution of values, and to challenge the injustice that was still existing in their society. He insisted that the country needed a new system of justice and equality; that we should care more about mankind as a whole. King claimed that he was opposing the war because he loved America, and he was greatly disappointed at how the country was “moving down a dead-end road that can lead to national disaster”; he criticized how the country failed to deal effectively with racism, economic exploitation, and militarism. Toward the end of the sermon, King called upon America to come home, to stop being the “policeman of the whole world”; he went as far as saying that America was being too arrogant of itself. King concluded with great certainty that Americans needed to keep their faith, to be brave, and to finally stand up for truth and justice even though they might face with frustration, because by doing so, they were making the world a better place.

	This sermon was given during a very eventful period of time in the U.S. history, in the midst of America’s continuous effort to contain Communism in many countries, including Vietnam; and after various modern liberalism movements enhanced by President Lyndon B. Johnson’s Great Society program. During this period, liberal concencus was crumbling, creating even more racial tension and riots all over the country. Frustration peaked among the black community due to the slow pace of change, and some of them started to shift from seeking racial equality to building black superiority, or the black-power movement. It was also at this moment that the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, or SNCC, a major civil rights organization, abandoned its non-violent policy and its goal of desegregation to support separatism. This historical context is important to understand, because it contributes to how different ethnic groups of Americans had reacted to Martin Luther King Jr. on the topic. 

	In his sermon, King mentioned several times that he was opposed to the war because he wanted the domestic problems - racism, poverty, and such - to be amended prior to foreign affairs; and that he wanted the best for American people. However, a majority of Americans did not agree with him. There is report stating that more than 73% of American citizens showed disapproval toward King’s denunciations of the war in Vietnam, and 60% believed that his action would damage the civil rights movement. Surprisingly, many people standing agaisnt King’s view on the war were in fact African-Americans. More precisely, 48% of the African-American population believed that his opinion was wrong, while only  25% supported him and the other 27% were reserving judgment. Anther article in the New York Times also stated that this group and sympathetic whites were holding out “hope that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. might say what he had to say about the war in Vietnam, and then turn his undivided attention back to civil rights”. This illustrates the popular African-American point of view at the time: though the civil rights movement was starting to die down in the Southern counties, and many African-Americans were looking for aid from him in their civil right battles, his commitment toward the anti-war effort was slowing down the progress. Dean O’Meara, a dedicated civil rights activist, had openly expressed his disappointment toward King’s decision to protest the war. According to an article on the New York Times, O’Meara stated that people who opposed the war were “either Communists or traitors or cowards”. He considered King and the SNCC’s leader, Stokely Carmichael, “persons with large goodwill but little insight”, then declared that they were hurting the civil rights movement and encouraging young men to dodge military service.

	Many others also criticized King’s assumption of what the money would be used for if there were no war going on. In an interview with the New York Times, Earle McCaskill, a well-educated African-American officer, had expressed his opinion on this problem, saying that,  “They didn’t appropriate the money before the war. Why would they now?” In addition, there was argument about how King wasn’t solidly standing for the belief in non-violent movement that he claim to pursue very dearly. For many years, King had always promoted non-violence, and his position in the war in Vietnam wasn’t an exclusion; nevertheless, in his sermon to his Atlanta congregation, King said that he might have dropped his pacifism in World War II “because Hitler was such an evil force”. He was also shown to be growing more and more attached to black-power organizations, which might affect his status and credibility as a civil rights leader. Despite all of this backlash to his view point, it seems that in the end, his standing with the mass of African-Americans was unaffected, even among those who support the war effort. An African-American grocer in Virginia, Clyde Banks, had provided what seemed to be the typical reaction to King’s speech, “I’m a veteran and I support the country’s position in Vietnam. But I still think Martin Luther King is the greatest living American.” Beside the majority of African-Americans’ responses, it seems that the sermon’s impact on Congress and other whites that supported the civil rights movement was quite different. It is mentioned that the resentment of this groups might harm King’s effectiveness as a civil rights leader.

	All of the primary sources above had accurately represent how most American population responded to Martin Luther King’s opinion on the Vietnam War. Not many of them were supportive of King’s idea that America should retreat from the war; however, though criticized for his view, King still remained a respectable and important figure in the non-violent civil rights movement. This surprisingly contradicts a popular belief today that at the time, the Vietnam war was protested on a large scale throughout the country. This sermon is important, because not only did it speak against a futile war that was costing America both lives and money, but it also bravely pointed out where America was going wrong: focusing too much on foreign affairs and militarism while leaving the social dilemmas at home unsolved. Though the sermon did not earn positive reaction, it could still be seen as the encouraging foundation to other anti-war movements in the future; frankly, the backlash of the war would later become so strong that President Lyndon B. Johnson decided not to run for re-election in 1968.

	

	