What Makes an Ad Effective:



	With all the craziness going on in America, it's obvious that we need peace and unity in this country now more than ever. Just in over the past year America has experienced violent hate crimes against minorities, police officers killing innocent people, mass shootings, tons of riots, etc. The list of every crazy thing that has happened to America in the past year even includes having a delusional bigot winning office and sightings of killer clowns on the loose. From everything that went on in America, advertisements tried their best to persuade the consumers to purchase their products despite the hellhole America may be in sometimes. The advertisement companies at this time should have taken into consideration the social context of what's happening, and how they can apply the three essential elements of ethos, logos, and pathos to create and effective ad. According to the Communication Assessment learning lab, "each one of these components provides an essential link to the audience, persuading an audience to accept the message you are trying to express and in turn support the position you have established in your speech. It is important that each component is analyzed in order to see how they develop persuasion inside a speech." (Cal blog) A good advertisement should include key points of ethos, pathos, and logos to make the advertisement effective because without it, the ad has no purpose and won't portray a strong message to the audience.

	If advertisements were trying to promote peace and unity due to the fact that our country is in a rough spot, how would they promote a certain product? Simple. They would try make the advertisement relatable or show how that product can help us get through this time. In fact, according to the article, Is Advertising Harmful for Society, it says, "Advertising is an incredibly effective and powerful way to spread the word about important issues." This can come into play when talking about social issues and how the advertisements try to best propose their product onto the citizens by trying to appeal to them. With a wide variety of social concerns/issues that were happening in America in 2017, advertisement campaigns had tons of opportunities to work with. They had social injustice, President Trump, equality, BLM movements, etc that could include the three main focus points of ethos, pathos, and logos to make their advertisement effective. 

 Probably the most biggest controversial advertisement that went viral within hours was the infamous 2017 Pepsi commercial starring famous model, Kendall Jenner. This advertisement received so much backlash however that within hours of it airing, Pepsi had to take it down immediately. A brief description of the commercial goes like this; basically there's a protest march going on and a line of cops lined up blocking the protesters. The three main characters of the ad are a cello player, a muslim wearing a hijab, and Kendall Jenner. Basically they all join the protest one by one and decide to march alongside the protestors. The climax of the advertisement is the end when Kendall Jenner walks to the front of the protesters and hands one of the swat members a Pepsi can. Everyone cheers and apparently all it takes to end a mass protest is a can of Pepsi to bring unity and peace. The climax of the ad was probably why it was criticized by many because it seemed that Pepsi appropriated a racial protest movement just to promote their brand. With all the Black Lives Matter riots and protests happening, many people were angered that Pepsi went this low to promote themselves. However,  According to NBC news here's what the Pepsi company had to say about the commercial aftermath, "Pepsi was trying to project a global message of unity, peace and understanding. Clearly we missed the mark, and we apologize." (Alexander Smith)  The reason why Pepsi missed the mark was because they didn't take into context the seriousness of the social issues of riots and how the audience might react. In addition, they didn't have a clear distinguish use of ethos, logos, and pathos in their commercial. 

To go deeper into the commercial, let's take a look on just why the advertisement flopped. First, when it came to using ethos, Pepsi got a well-known celebrity being Kendall Jenner, making it credible to say. However, I'm not sure if she's all that credible to be stopping a protest with a can of Pepsi, yet alone if anyone is credible for that matter. I began to think about what would happen if an African American was in Jenner's shoes, would people still be upset over the commercial? Would the commercial have been more effective if they got someone else to play her role or would the reactions have been the same? That's something that should've been taken into consideration when Peppsi decided to create their advertisement. The second thing that comes into play during a good ad is whether or not it appeals to emotion, also known as pathos. The commercial had a few glimpses of showing minorities rallying up together to protests while holding the peace symbol sign and signs that said, "join the controversy," but there was nothing that made the commercial scream emotions. According to NBC news, Pepsi said this, "the ad features multiple lives, stories and emotional connections that show passion, joy, unbound and uninhibited moments." (Alexander Smith) If this was the case, then the advertisement didn't do a good job portraying that message because it seemed like no one from the public audience got that message. When it came to appealing to reason, which is Logos, the commercial did an okay job. The reason being Pepsi did take into consideration the social context of everything that was happening at the time, being BLM movements. Additionally, the ad clearly showed what  protests look like and the groups of people involved in the movement but the climax of the ad is where it missed its mark. If Pepsi really wanted this to be an effective ad, they should've showed some product placement or facts on why Pepsi is the better soda on the market. Instead, they decided to showcase the soda during a protest, basically saying that all it takes to end a huge protest is a can of Pepsi. The end of the advertisements ends with the words, "live bolder, live louder, live for now." These words could mean to live for today's time and speak up for yourself but I don't really see how this tied in with how Pepsi is the better product on the market. The advertisement did a good job on using social issues happening at that time period to make the product more relatable, but if anything that's all Pepsi did a good job on.

A good advertisement should make you want to buy the product that they are endorsing. According to the online article It's all According to the Technique, it says, "Advertisements should try to inform you about how the product works or helps you." (FTC) Commercials should provide facts about their product or why it's better than other similar products on the market. However, that's not all that makes an advertisement good. Theoretically, a good advertisement should include the three main focus points of ethos, pathos, and logos. These three components are key to a good advertisement because they make the ad credible, and appeal to the audience's emotions and reasoning When you look at the infamous 2017 Pepsi commercial featuring Kendall Jenner, the ad did a good job with social context and created the ad to be relevant to that time period, being BLM movements. However, even with that social context being spot on, the three elements of ethos, logos, and pathos fell short, making the overall commercial's message weak. The biggest  reason why the commercial was unsuccessful was because Pepsi didn't take into consideration the fact that they basically appropriated the protest culture. If the advertisement would've used a more credible person, appealed to more emotions, or even made the end of the commercial more reasonable, it would've been a considered a good advertisement. Pepsi would have been successful in conveying their message of peace and unity to everyone.

































Works Cited





comm.lab.asu.edu/persuasive-power-the-importance-of-ethos-pathos-and-logos/#.WpOURKinHIU.  

Suggett, Paul. "Some Say Advertising Does More Harm Than Good. Does It?" The Balance, www.thebalance.com/is-advertising-harmful-to-society-38971.

Smith, Alexander. "Pepsi Pulls Controversial Kendall Jenner Ad After Outcry." NBC News, www.nbcnews.com/news/nbcblk/pepsi-ad-kendall-jenner-echoes-black-lives-matter-sparks-anger-n742811.

"It's All About the Technique." Consumer Information, 17 July 2013, www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0375-its-all-about-technique.