First Responders 



On March 28th, 2018, I was on a ride along with the Anytown fire department’s paramedic unit to gain the first 12 hours of the 24 that I need to be able to take the national registry exam. While sitting in the lounge at the station we receive a call for what was an elderly lady with symptoms of a stroke. When we arrived, we were approached by this lady’s son who gave us a run-down of her symptoms. I helped load her onto the ambulance as she was confused and half her body appeared paralyzed for the moment. Myself being an EMT student obtained some of her vital signs and put her on some oxygen while the paramedic asked her questions to asses her mental status, at first, she didn’t know where she was and appeared very confused. After a while on the oxygen she came back to reality and was no longer confused. This call made me realize just how important EMS is for society. 

People have this idea about how EMS work but they take them from television shows and movies but they are completely misleading. I hope to inform anybody who may be confused about what it is that first responders actually do. The two main professions in EMS are a Paramedic and an EMT. EMT stands for “Emergency Medical Technician”. They have less training and can do less of what a paramedic can do. An EMT can expect to have schooling for about a semester. According to the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians, provide out of hospital emergency medical care and transportation for critical and emergent patients who access the emergency medical services (EMS) system. EMTs have the basic knowledge and skills necessary to stabilize and safely transport patients ranging from non-emergency and routine medical transports to life threatening emergencies. An EMT well help a paramedic assesses a person’s vital signs and assists in transporting a patient to the ambulance. Once on the ambulance the EMT will transport both the medic and the patient to the hospital while the medic takes care of the patient in the back. 

A paramedics job is a lot more complex than in EMT’s job but they both work together to get what needs to be done accomplished. According to allaboutcareers.com, “Paramedics respond to emergency calls and work under intense pressure. Quite often, their hard work can be the difference between life and death.” “paramedics spend most of their time in ambulances, which are stocked with vital medical supplies and are fitted with emergency treatment equipment, such as oxygen masks, ventilators and defibrillators to ease respiration and aid resuscitation. These dynamic medics also clean, dress and bandage minor and major injuries.”

	When people think of first responders they think of the red lights, driving extremely fast, and doing CPR day in and day out. This actually isn’t the case, what actually happens on a typical call is a lot more complex than that. The medic and EMT will arrive on seen and determine what it is that is going on. They will then treat any life-threatening sickness or injury on scene and will transport either immediately or not life threatening. On route to the hospital the medic is usually in the back with the patient treating the illnesses and obtaining any information regarding insurance and anything that he or she can get on a report. Once at the hospital the medic and EMT take the patient in and nurses along with doctors see he patient and determine which level to take them to. There are three levels, green, yellow and red. Red is where the most critical patients go and are treated first. They are the patients that suffer trauma related emergencies. Yellow is the area that patients go when they are suffering less but still serious emergencies. Patients will wait a little longer than red patients but a treated as well. The last area patients will wait at is the green zone. A lot of times paramedics will say that green patients would be better off going to their personal doctor because they will go to the hospital for simple things like coughs. 

Before one is able to become a first responder they have to pass a couple of tests, both these tests are done under the national registry. The first test is a written exam that is around 100 questions. It tests everything that a student has learned in classroom textbook work to see if they are competent enough to work out in the field with whatever company they choose. The next test is a skills test in which an individual has to show a proctor the skills they have learned. This test gets very specific and tests anything from Cardiopulmonary resuscitation to stopping bleeding and many more things. For a Paramedic, it is the same type of test but with more since they spent a lot more time in school. 

The number of careers available with these trainings are a lot because ambulance companies need EMT’s and Paramedics. One can work at a hospital, waterparks, entertainment parks like Disneyland, and even casinos. Sometimes these places will actually pay more than what an ambulance company pays which is a better choice because most of the time these places provide a less stressful environment than what you normally see on an ambulance. The high stress environment is a bit more rewarding because first responders work longer hours therefore bringing in more money. They will work 24 and 12 hour shifts as opposed to normal 8 hour shifts that you would work if u weren’t on an ambulance.

	First responders have some of the most important jobs in the world. That comes with more stress, longer hours, but is a rewarding career. First responders are respected across America because of what they go through to save lives on a daily basis. This is the type of career I wanted when I started my time in Emergency Medical Technician training.  







 