


There a lot of differences between sloppy and neat people that no one really understands. Everyone in this world is characterized by the traits and attributes that are being possessed or conveyed. Society today view sloppy people as lazy and unorganized, and neat people as organized and kind. But is that really the case, between the biased claims that people make it out to be. Everything is not as it seems and there is more to neat people that others do not understand like how neat people are mean, wasteful  and significant believers in their own morals.





Considering a person as being neat and applauding them is a natural thing, because viewing that person for what they’ve done is all you need to see. Neat people are more than just “organized” their also mean. In the text, Britt makes a claim saying “ Neat people will toy with the idea of throwing the children out of the house just to cut down on the clutter”. This claim can not be more agreeable, due to the fact that i’ve been kicked out of the house  so many times because the house was dirty.  For example, we all have that one parent or family member that yells at you  for the silliest reasons because something of yours is misplaced or in a room it should not belong. 





	Furthermore, being wasteful is another trait that neat people have inhabited. For example, saving items and finishing products are things that neat people never do compared to sloppy people because neat people don’t believe in “handling things twice”. This is why you always see neat people throwing away things that still have value or importance. I’ve always hated the fact that my family could never finish a whole container of juice, because the remaining juice left would eventually be dumped. It’s the little things that you value as important, that is being taken away because of the very little use it has left in the eyes of neat people.





Did you know that neat people are significant believers in their own morals? Neat people believe that whatever they say goes. For example, in the text, Britt explained how neat people “ operate on two unvarying principles”and how “they don’t care about process”. This is the very reason why their standards are high and strict. For example, getting things done the right way, instead of creating a way/process that hinders their ability to complete a task appropriately and efficiently . Neat people don’t allow things to pile up,so that it can be done later or; they like for things to be accessed then and there.



In conclusion, there is more than meets the eye pertaining to the  unspecified or biased traits leading to others such as sloppy or neat people. Society view sloppy people as lazy and unorganized, and neat people as organized and kind. But is that really the case, between the biased claims that people make it out to be. Everything is not as it seems and there is more to people that others do not understand like how neat people are mean, wasteful, and significant believers in their own morals.









