Rhetorical Analysis of Burger King Bullying Jr Ad

	We as human beings have no desire to be bullied; were taught at a young age, “treat others like how you want to be treated,” but in today’s society an act of human kindness has become more of an option rather than being a fundamental act into our careless society. It is comfortable to say that at one point in our lifetime we have experienced the confrontation of being bullied, whether its in a joking manner or constantly. Yet, even witnessed one or more situations of someone getting pushed around. Excessive bullying comes from a long line generation, which people have seem to upbring more of the negative behavior towards the innocence of others. Therefore, Burger King brand has teamed up with NoBully.org creating a PSA advertisement to raise awareness of how people of our humankind should take the responsibility to defend those who are not able to; therefore, it can highly prevent future bullying confrontations from happening. This specific ad illustrates the perspective of little human kindness we have left yet, also the amount of cruelty that we simply disregard because “it’s easier to do nothing” (Burger King). No More! Take a stand! 

	 Words are a powerful tool to express our feelings and thoughts, but words can also be very hurtful used to distraught emotional pain and lower one's self-esteem. In other words, “Verbal bullying is when an individual uses verbal language (insults, teasing, etc) to gain power over his or her peers,” but though it’s just seen as “words” it can be very detrimental to someone who feels defenseless and a target of a bully (Google). For example, the Burger King video consisted of many teens who listed many pernicious names calling such as, “Scrawny. Short. Ugly. Fat. Weird.” This interviewed segment of the PSA video provided a sense of the reality of what teen kids have to experience. Thus, worldwide it is the most common type of bullying with the highest percentage of seventy-seven percent of students who have become a victim of verbal abuse (Google). Furthermore, bullying has become a bigger facet of people's lives because in today’s society bullying can take affect anywhere, anytime either being indirect or direct. There are many factors of what bullying is and it can be physical, verbal, relation, or damage to property consisting of disgusting behavior and lack of compassion for one another. Which gives Burger King reasons to raise awareness by creating a PSA video to inform the audience that bullying is like a wildfire that needs to be put to a stop, but how will it stop if there’s no one to lend a courageous hand? Therefore, to simply better a person’s understanding of how atrocious bullying is Burger King assembled a national bullying prevention ad by including more details of the subject to make it seem that much closer to reality, because as Jack Solomon stated, “there’s no illusion like the illusion of reality”. Burger King’s main purpose is to provide awareness of “bullying” by providing disturbing scenes of a high school junior and a whopper jr getting bullied in the same setting. Burger King created a false confrontation under the circumstances to see which controversial would receive the most complaints. 

	The advertisement was candid and effective to prove its message raising  awareness for preventing bullying, yet the video consisted a list of importance to present credibility. In the ad it begins with the statistics of bullying and sadly “thirty percent of student worldwide are a victim of bullying” (Burger King). Moreover, that means that at least one out of three students are mistreated because people tend to have a gray area that conflicts with whether or not they should intervene. The Burger King’s video illustrated the issues of bullying towards the high school junior and a whopper junior by mentioning the stats of how many people reported the act of cruelty aka bullying, and the bystanders that complained more about their whopper jr. The resolution of how the issue was handled is what make this world a challenging place because those who have the power at the moment of time to make a difference into our society neglects to intervene because of the social cues and unsureness about the responsibility of a bystander. In the PSA video only “twelve percent of the people stood up for high school junior victim” (Burger King). However, ninety five percent of the customers who had a “bullied” whopper jr irrefutably reported the situation instantly (Burger King). If Bystanders does not take action of a bullying confrontation then people tend to signal that it is not an appropriate for a response relating to the issue (Kendra Cherry). People say “bullying is not okay” but then again when a situation occurs people rather mind their own business because “it is easier”, “it’s not happening to them”, or  is afraid of “the uncertainty of what may happen” (Burger King). Overall, the video was productive demonstrating a strong sense of ethos because the video consisted of teenagers who have experienced the situation of being bullied. Which gives a substantial amount of credibility because they were allowed to expose the raw emotion of those who grasp an understanding of what bullying is. Nonetheless, it allocated a trustworthy connection for the audience because of the real customers, and real teenagers that observed the bullying or has been bullied. 

	Furthermore, we allow ourselves to hold back and let situations happen to others until it has happened to ourselves. It’s logical to say that we don't put forth the effort unless we ourselves have experienced the situation. People tend to think that they don’t have to offer help because others will report the issue, which is known as the “bystander effect” (Melissa BurkelycPh.D.). It’s shocking at the fact that so many people witness the behavior but failed to intervene and stop the situation. We are all human, therefore, why do we allow others to diminish another's integrity. For example, the various amount of customers that witnessed the young high school junior being harassed with the harsh name calling and torment of disruptive behavior from other high school students had little to say. Til the situation got reversed because the Burger King employee has “bullied” the whopper jr. by smashing the sandwich. Thus that’s when the customers immediately went and complained about their bullied sandwich. The video strongly appeals to a sense of logos because it was logical to attract this ad by connecting on an emotional, experience level. Nonetheless, this video illustrated the side of the bullied high school student, then later on the customers sandwich that first seemingly disregarded the disturbing negative behavior. It swapped the perspective of both sides, a bullied victim, the bystanders who later were bullied, and the bullies as well. Therefore, this Burger King ad providing real-life example gives reasons and logic of why taking a stand to prevent bullying can make the difference that this society desperately needs. 

	The Burger King ad conveyed numerous effects of emotions throughout the video by providing emotional appeals that help the viewers connect on an empathy level. The topic of “bullying” is an attempt to simply create a source of feelings that will become more apparent throughout the PSA video. The usage of having different racial and age of students talk about bullying makes the viewers feel in some way linked to the matter. In addition, the reactions of how the issue was resolved in the video to bring up a lot of questions on how we can help prevent national bullying worldwide. How do we take a stand? The percentage of results that people stood up for the bullied high school junior was wistfully low; therefore, that is one of the many reasons why Burger King started this campaign for NoBully.org because people need to have the courage to make a difference. Burger Kings trying to make people conceive the idea that anyone can be a victim, it can be you, a family member. Thus, if that situation was to happen you would want someone to stand up for you. In other words, Burger King is trying to incorporate a sense full of emotions that will make the audience understand that standing up against bullying will decrease the chance of another bullied victim. For example, when the employer asked the customer “Had you seen me bully this burger would you have said something?” The customer quickly responded with rage “yeah.” People say that the idea of being an  “upstander” is what we learned and shared but in reality, only half of us will acknowledge the situation (Christina Salmivalli). It creates a suspense of emotions that make us want to do better. Make a change. Make a difference. Not only does the context of the video made an appeal but also the other detailed effects such as the music background that displays really allows us to get valid of hope and have some faith that something better is coming. Everything that was in the video was shown to portray the emotions of something so real, that in order to have a better society, to make a difference within the world, we must make the difference, we must be the difference. 

In closing, “Burger King Bullying ad” does a substantial job to raise awareness of how demeaning bullying can be and also demonstrated how we can take a stand for those who feel powerless. It’s all up to you to decide if you want to make a change and stand up. No kid, teen, or any human being should have to encounter the act of violence and harassment(Burger King). The videos usage of the author's purpose, ethos, logos, and pathos were used properly to raise awareness making an effective impact because it illustrated the importance of how standing up for others can decrease the percentage of bullied victims. Thus, the video helped create an eye-opening solution on how we can prevent bullying from happening to another person. Like the customer said in the interview, “If I see it ima do something about it. I hope there are more people out there like that.” I know I will. Will you be willing to take a stand?  

	







































Works Cited

bk. “BURGER KING | Bullying Jr.” YouTube, YouTube, 17 Oct. 2017, www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnKPEsbTo9s. 

Burkley, Melissa. “Why Don't We Help? Less Is More, at Least When It Comes to Bystanders.” 

Cherry, Kendra. “What Is the Bystander Effect?” Very well Mind, www.verywellmind.com/the-bystander-effect-2795899.

Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 4 Nov. 2009, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-social-thinker/200911/why-don-t-we-help-less-is-more-least-when-it-comes-bystanders.

Google. www.bing.com/cr?IG=B0CE903026194734804D8E61E2F58242&CID=3029D7DCAA6F659B17A2DC7EABC064AE&rd=1&h=_XtwJPtWbpalBNSOCONJt9SSIj0FPRrDLOhX6vob0BQ&v=1&r=http%3a%2f%2fwww.google.com%2f&p=DevEx,5060.1.

“Meet Google Drive – One place for all your files.” Google, Google, drive.google.com/drive/folders/10NFWt1mauS2S6W4L6Ew4uIP2RcOUVkqs. 

“What Is Bullying.” StopBullying.gov, www.stopbullying.gov/what-is-bullying/index.html. 





	

