A country with two Faces
On April 30, 1967 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr gave a sermon on a Riverside church in New York. The sermon was directed to the American population and it is known on history as the “Why I am Opposed to the War in Vietnam”. In the sermon Dr. King outlined why he opposed the War in Vietnam and he proceeded to tell his seven reasons why he had made that decision. For the time Dr. King decided to speak on his opposition to the war. It was out of the ordinary to go against a war that was being fought not only to protect the American resources but to also protect the stability of democracy that was at risk by the communist party. But Dr. King knew that it was time for somebody to stand up against unfairness and mass killings of both Vietnams, and American soldiers.

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr first point was that the during the great society deal many innovative programs where promised to be created to help poor American families. But once the Vietnamize war started “the program broke as if it was some idle political plaything of a society gone mad on war. And I knew that America would never invest the necessary fund or energies in rehabilitation of its poor. Dr. King knew that at long as there was something else going on around the world the last priority would be the poor families as they where seen as if they where poor by choice. The programs should have been made first as that should have been the best decision to help its own people before extending the hand to another country who was trying to recolonize a country they had lost as it was never theirs. The second point that Dr. King spoke of was that the only people who were getting drafted without any way for them to evade the draft where the male members of the poor families. Who in fact where not able to see the fruits of the Poverty program as it was stopped to fund the war. Instead “it was sending their sons, and their brother, and their husbands to fight and die in extraordinarily high proportion relative to the rest of the population. They were not only betrayed by their own country, but they were send to a place where most of them dint even knew where it was located. Most of the rich and medium income earners where able to evade the draft without any problems. That left the poor communities without men who were the breed earners and needed to work for their families and to overcome their poor states. Instead it made the richer get richer and the poor to stay poor. It was an unfair treatment that only minorities and some white families had to go through. 

The third point that Dr. King gave was the that in a sense America was a hypocrite country as he said that “there’s something strangely inconsistent about a nation and a press that will praise you when you say, be non-violent towards Jim Clark, but will curse and damn you when you say “Be non-violent toward little brown Vietnamese children. There’s something wrong with that press!”. The press was a big contributor to the Vietnamese war as all Americans would either see it or read the newspapers every day. The press approved of the civil right movement but dint aloud anyone to talk against the war as they were either communist, non-American, or just simply dumb. Most of the media owner where just plane conservators that dint aloud anyone to talk bad about America even if what they where saying was the thru.  The fifth point was that Vietnam had declared its independence and it had quoted our declaration of independence and we refuse to accept it. So instead of us helping them out we told them no and we fought on the side of the French who where trying to recolonize Vietnam. In a sense we betrayed our own beliefs that everyone should be independent. We were to scare of the consequence that could happen if Vietnam contributed with the communist party in Russia. 

There were two responses to Dr. Kings sermon. Some where positive will other where negative. In one hand there where some that praised Dr. King for standing up to the government as most of the minorities who were being send to fight in Vietnam where not been represented here in their own country. So, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr “urged young men to file as conscientious objectors and to refuse to fight for the united states, which he described as “the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today”. This was received by the minorities to stand up to the government and get a slight change as they where suffering from inequality here in their won country will their sons where the first people to be deploying to fight for the war. They seen this as unfair and abuse of power as the white people where left behind to live their life’s. 

 Many young men from minorities applauded Dr. King for standing against the draft. Some where ok with going to jail for what they believed. They believed that “we shouldn’t ask our young men to go and serve unless we have representation. As most of the generals where white the minorities were send first and they were still segregated in the war. They though that “whites have no right to send us offThey wanted to be in equal states with everyone if they were to die for a war that they never started. 

This brought a different response from the government as they saw this as “Civil disobedience. They saw the sermon as declaring that everyone should not obey the draft as they had no rights against the minorities. Some even went to the extend to try and send Dr. King to jail. But he responded saying that “the selective service act itself gives the right to all men who are conscientious objectors to decline to serve. This made the government angrier as they wanted to keep everyone from knowing that the war was going bad. Even when everyone already knew that this war was done already and that instead of helping it was destroying the governments credibility. The government went to the level of trying to arrest anyone who protested the war. 

In New York there was a group of protestors who did what Dr. Martin Luther king said about opposing the war and the New York authorities arrested them on the charges that “the demonstrators seriously disrupted traffic and scorned police pleas to disperse. The government already had no way on controlling what Dr. Martin Luther King Jr had started as he was the voice that gave many students and members the strength to stand up against the authorities.

There were some inside the civil right movement who wanted that Dr. King would talk about the war but once he did and he stood up against it they criticize him. Somewhere mad that he was focusing more in the war than the civil right movement. What they dint knew was that “the civil right movement cannot really be won anyway until the war is settled. The people wanted the movement to keep going as they saw that the war could help them out but that wasn’t really what was going to happen. Everyone was so focused on what was going on with the war that they forgot about the civil right movement until Dr. MLK Jr spoke on his position against it. Some even went as far as to say that “” other like him” were hurting the civil rights movement by linking it with the war in Vietnam. In a sense they were both related as they were fighting for freedom and equal rights. People saw that those that opposed the role of America in the war where communist they were in a sense also conservatives that where selfish that at long as they go what they wanted it was good. But sadly, they dint knew that this war was an immense help for Americans to understand how important the Civil right movement was. 

The sermon that Dr. Martin Luther king Jr gave in the riverside church was an eye opening for many people who where scare to speak out against the war. Just like Dr. Martin Luther King Jr there where other who had the same beliefs as they were the ones suffering the most as they where from the minorities. A course there where people who see his comment on the war as a communist or anti American. Most of the points given by Dr. King where honestly what we as Americans stand against. The first one being that the government was fighting a war that instead of giving the American people it was taking all our resources and men who where dying on the war. The second point was the inequality of race that where send to war. Most of the soldiers who went to Vietnam where from minorities and some where white. That from a solders perspective can be discouraging as there was still racism. The Third point was that the press was demonstrating a hypocrite way of showing the news as they praised the civil war but they destroyed anyone who opposed the war.   