Billingual Education

 	Billingual education the practice of teaching non English speaking students in their native language while still learning English since the 1990’s is something that is having more and more of an impact on society. This being due to the fact that over the past recent years there has been an increase in immigration/migration especially Hispanic groups accoring to Census Bareu there are, 55.6 Million Hispanics in the U.S . As a result, many of those who come bring their family more specifically children who attend schools here and there has been an increase in the need for billingual education especially in public schools which according to NCES is, 4.8 billion. Now, having been an English learner which is something similar to billingual education I have known about this issue. However, now that I am older and have reflected on my experiences I have found myself interested more in this subject.

For this reason, in this paper, based on my experience and ectensive research I will argue that billingual education at the end of the day isn’t as effective as it’s thought to be. This being due to the fact that it cost a lot of money according to The Fiscal Times, about $750 billion is spent on these programs. These types of programs have also been proven to not teach students the English language and be properly equipped. Finally, these type of programs have been proven to increase racism/segregation.

For all these reasons, I will concentrate primarily on billingual education and the effects on society. This will be accomplished, by using information mostly found on the internet because I have found some valuable and creditable sources. By doing this, hopefully more and more people become informed about this subject. As well as, stop supporting these types of programs. 

Before I begin, I would like to give a bit of historical background on this issue. Now, this isn’t something that developed overnight or just a modern issue. This has been around since the early settlement in America. First things first billingual education according to Merriam Webster is, “education in an English-language school system in which students with little fluency in English are taught in both their native language and English.” (Merriam Webster). This being because when Germans arrived they very often still educted their children in German and even the Articles of Confederation which was the first written constitution was in both German and English which was accepted. However as time progressed more and more people began to come to the United States. As a result, more languages began to be introduced until about 1924 when stricter immigration quotas began to be enforced. It was then that for the following years billingual education would become a controversial topic. For this reason, I will address both sides of the argument but primarily focus on why billingual education hasn’t been effective. 

To begin with, billingual education has caused great controversy because of the cost. It is estimated that about $750 billion and expected to rise to $13.4  billion by 2025. Now, in order to get an idea of how much exactly is spent on these types of programs and the impact it is important to look at states that have implemented these programs. For example, Texas has implemented this program and on average according to, a  by Boston University’s Christine Rossell, “Texas schools with a bilingual program spend $402 more per student than schools without a bilingual program. Other studies find that bilingual education costs $200 to $700 more per pupil than alternative approaches.” (The Fiscal Times). Of course these very high prices have led many in Texas specifically Dr. Rosalie Porter who herself was a part of these programs and has been a teacher herself. Porter states that billingual education is a, ““wrong-headed theory” (Dr.Rosalie Porter). Instead she proposes, “ “structured immersion,” where children initially are taught English in separate classrooms for part of the day, along with others who grow up speaking a different language at home, but are quickly thrust into classrooms where the teaching is in English.” (Dr.Rosalie Porter). However, when closely examined it is estimateed that Porter’s program would be very costly still because as Dr. Christine Rossell explains these types of programs require teachers to get higher educaation. Which will result in having a higher pay adding to the cost of these programs for something that, “has a negative effect on English-language learner achievement.” (Dr.Christine Rossell). Therefore, proving that money is just going to waste on programs that arent even effective. Even Dr. Porter states, ““I’ve never been against spending money to help kids, but the money should be spent in an efficient, effective way,” (Dr.Rosaline Porter). 

To continue, I have pointed out several times thus far that billingual education has not been effective but why? Well, going back to what Dr. Porter in The Fiscal Times argues which is that these programs are proven to be ineffective becauese it takes longer to learn a second language, “it takes kids three to six years to mainstream.” (Dr.Rosaline Porter). This is due to the fact that as a study on Research Gate states, “English language is difficult to learn due to students are not well-motivated, encouraged and gained learning strategy. Furthermore, students do not practice speaking English with English native speakers, and class environment is crowded and noisy that is not fulfilled with teaching pedagogy.” (Research Gate). Why waste time on these programs if they will be ineffective?

Finally, not only do these programs cost a lot and are ineffective but they also lead to racism/segregation. Now, im not saying this is the root of the problem because racism and segregation has been prevelent in the United States since its founding. However, these programs do make this issue more prominent. This being because English Learners are very often put into different classes for a majority of time. Therefore, missing most of the classes with their peers who are flent in English. For example, in The Atlantic a couple students like Chelsea, “a 13-year-old Spanish-speaker who learned English in the third grade, recalls her earliest years in school as especially difficult amid her struggles to communicate with peers. “I used to get mad and aggravated because I couldn’t speak English,” she says. “People were looking at me as if I were another type of human being.” Her classmates share similar frustrations. “I felt dumb and left out when we did advanced math because my teacher wouldn’t let me do it even though I knew I could,” says Yaye, a bright 14-year-old who speaks Wolof, the most widely spoken language in Senegal, at home. Yaye says he languished in his K-2 English-as-a-second-language classes, “not progressing or learning.” Melyanet, also 14, remembers feeling alienated and lonely when she was in prekindergarten—an age when children often sharpen their social skills through play. “I would try my best to learn English but it was hard,” the teen recalls. “No one spoke [Spanish] so I wouldn’t make friends. I would sit in the back.” (The Atlantic). Especially because as Olga Kagan, a languages and cultures professor at UCLA and director of the university’s National Heritage Language Resource Center explains many of these students have no literacy in the language they speak at home. Implementing these programs has proven to be detrimental to ones identity. 

To conclude, billingual education an issue that has been around for a very long time should just be done away. This being because it costs too much to have these ineficient programs running. These programs also are ineffective in doing their intended purpose. Finally, it damages ones identity because it sets English Learners apart. Despite all this is an issue that will continue to be around especially during the Trump administration and because there continues to be an increase in immigration. 

































Works Cited

Anderson, Melinda D. “Bilingualism: When Education and Assimilation Clash.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 27 Oct. 2015, www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2015/10/history-bilingual-education/412543/. 

“Bilingual Education: Toss It and Teach Kids English.” The Fiscal Times, www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2010/08/25/Bilingual-Education-Does-Not-Work. 

“The Condition of Education - Participation in Education - Elementary/Secondary - English Language Learners in Public Schools - Indicator April (2018).” Revenues and Expenditures for Public Elementary and Secondary Education: School Year 2001-2002, E.D. Tab, National Center for Education Statistics, nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_cgf.asp. 

“History of Bilingual Education.” Findlaw, education.findlaw.com/discrimination-harassment-at-school/history-of-bilingual-education.html. 

History.com Staff. “Articles of Confederation.” History.com, A&E Television Networks, 2009, www.history.com/topics/articles-of-confederation. 

“Staff and Student Research 2014 - Victoria University of Wellington.” Owner Guides and User Manuals, manualzz.com/doc/31960128/staff-and-student-research-2014---victoria-university-of-... 

“The ‘Triple Segregation’ of Latinos, ELLs: What Can We Do?” New America, www.newamerica.org/education-policy/edcentral/latinos-segregation/. 

US Census Bureau. “FFF: Hispanic Heritage Month 2016.” U.S. Trade with Haiti, 12 Oct. 2016, www.census.gov/newsroom/facts-for-features/2016/cb16-ff16.html.



