Procrastination	Acoording to the article, Science Direct the Department of education from The Islamia University of Bahawalpur,  they state “The study concluded that procrastination affects the academic performance of students in terms of classroom learning and participation in activities, submission of their assignments, and preparing for the examinations and achievement”(Hussain). This study has shown us that for the most part it can affect us in school and most of the students in my opinion think it’s okay to procrastinate. Yes I understand that so many students do it, even myself because sometimes I forget to do my homework or I  just get lazy. For the most part this continues to be a habit for people and you can probably see these people are  really tired because they are up late working on their assignments because they procrastinate. According to Abie De Villiers,  “Procrastination is the habit of putting off doing an important task, but then becoming involved with a less important task. We put off working on our assignment, due next week, and then start cleaning our room. The result is usually that we feel guilty, get behind in our work and do not make effective use of our available time”(Villiers). It says that procrastination is a habit ,  and that  we kind of catch ourselves into knowing that we are  behind with stuff and that we do not make time.  So the question here is, why do people procrastinate even when they know it is not a good thing? People procrastinate because they know that they are not going to follow through what they have planned out, and this leads to stress and fear to fail.

With people procrastinating they do not realize that perhaps they might have a good reason to procrastinate. According to Carleton University Professor, she stated “there’s an easy way to explain it — cultural procrastination. It’s a theory that New Year’s resolutions are rooted in themselves “culturally prescribed procrastination,” meaning we’re culturally primed to procrastinate by making a resolution for a future date, instead of committing now” (Clarke). As stated in this quote they are telling us that in a way they are primed to procrastinate, it's for them to plan something out in the future. They know that they are not committed to doing something on that specific date that they might set it on. So likewise they decide to procrastinate because they know they will eventually finish what they have to do.  For example, Clarke states, “you’re making your intention to start at least days from now, if not weeks or months from now” (Clarke). In their point of view, they see what cultural procrastination is, that they will soon make their intentions happen later on. We might think why should we procrastinate? Wouldn't it be much better if we just picked a date to finish what we have to do?

For me, it would be possible to follow through with the Cultural Procrastination.  I’m that type of person that can not be settled and jot down a date to do something.  If I tell myself i'm going to lose weight and that i'm going to start on a specific date. I know that eventually, it will not happen, which is the total opposite that i'm supposed to lose weight eventually. Maybe that's why when most of us do the New Years Resolution we never tend to do what we have planned out, but soon it will be done when we think its the right time. Like what the article, Why wait? The science is behind, they state, “ The Greek poet Hesiod, writing around 800 B.C., cautioned not to “put your work off till tomorrow and the day after”( Jaffe). As you can see the Greek poet mentioned that it's not a great thing to procrastinate, and to keep saying that your going to do it the next day, but at the end, you're still going to keep saying the same thing again and again. It would be much better to do what you have to do as soon as possible then having yourself to worry that you have something to do. 

Procrastination is a lead to stress, the reason to that is that many people think of what they have to do and they have trouble. While they are in that position they are stressed out that they can't figure out what to do. For instance, according to the article, On Stress, Anxiety, and Procrastination, the author Bill Knaus Ed.D. states, 

Your level of stress affects what you do.  When distracted by stresses, you are likely to put more things off and suffer from a  effect. This is where you feel stressed, put things off, and then feel stressed thinking about what you’ve left undone. As you do this, you leave more things undone and feel overwhelmed. This is a classic vicious cycle (Bill, 2015).

When suffering from stress your at that point that you do not want to do nothing, that you just want to avoid what's important. On the other hand, that makes you want to procrastinate because you wait until the last minute and you know you have so many things you do at the same time. Furthermore, it makes you want to finish the assignments that are easier than the assignments that you gotta finish before the deadline. 

This leads to fear to fail you are worried about failing and you are stuck in that position and you cannot get out. So it takes time for yourself to get yourself together and that ends up with procrastination. All that trying that you do to try to do good makes you give up, and all the time you try you finally give up when you realize it is the last minute. As said in the article, Fear leads to procrastination which leads to failure, states, “They lower our self-esteem and make us feel bad about ourselves, so we often avoid doing things that we think might lead to failure, criticism or rejection”( Fear, 2018). The fear of failure makes you think that you can not do nothing and the whole point is that you should give up and not try. Is there an easier way to switch it up so you can not feel fear. So by thinking that you probably did it wrong makes you not want to complete what you have to do.  

Procrastination has happened all over our society and it has been a problem and it has been a good thing for some people. So who knows if its a good thing or not. Yes we say so many people procrastinate, but do we know why? If we realize that we are procrastinating we can actually try to help ourselves by saying   “oh I will do it the next day.” For instance, just like the cultural procrastination they procrastinate on New year resolution, which is a habit for them to say I will eventually do it. Also for stress and fear to fail it is the cause to procrastinate so we can not blame it on one of them. Procrastination happens for multiple reasons and these are just a few factors that are part of this situation.



	

	

	









Work cited

“Analysis of Procrastination among University Students.” Procedia - Social and Behavioral  

Sciences, Elsevier, 21 Sept. 2010,  

Clarke, Katrina. “Cultural Procrastination: The Psychology behind New Year's Resolutions.” 

      Thestar.com, 26 Dec. 2015



“Is Procrastination Just a Bad Habit?” CPUT Blogs



Jaffe, Eric. “Why Wait? The Science Behind Procrastination.” Association for Psychological



“On Stress, Anxiety, and Procrastination.” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers



Webb, Caroline. “How to Beat Procrastination.” Harvard Business Review,

 27 Sept. 2017, 