Gun assaults in schools 

     There are many cases about gun assaults in High, Elementary and Middle school that are creating  buzz but, nobody really tries to stop this. Over the years, there is an increase in number in such assaults. According to Gun Violence Archive, from beginning of this year there are  7803 incidents happened in just 2 months. Recently there is an accident that got the attention  of everyone that happened in Florida. Some believe that ,there is  nothing that we can do to stop it. Everyone has their own different opinion, some think that it's the responsibility of the government to ban the guns. There are some who think it’s safe to have gun with you to protect yourself.Some may agree or disagree but nobody really thinks that is it really safe to carry guns? However, you need to think about the safety of others. A small incident can really turn into a serious accident which later on make you guilty. Before it really spreads out to much , people should be concerned how to stop the gun violence in the schools.

      There is an advertisement that says, “ we won’t sell Kinder chocolate eggs in the interest of child safety. Why not assault weapons?” The article by Isabelle Khoo titled “Kinder Surprise USA: Why These Eggs Are Banned South Of The Border” provides this information that says “The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act banned the chocolate because of the non nutritive object such as toys” because they could be choking hazard for young kids.There is clearly a hidden message in the ad  that describes our thinking about two different things aren’t always same.Both are causing us harm and we are still ignoring on the fact that someone else can take the responsibility. In 2013, there are 113 shootings has been tracked in high, elementary and middle school. The reason behind the incident are either verbal altercation, unintentional shootings because of the gun presence. As the cases are increasing many school authorities are allowed to carry guns in the school property. They are allowed to carry guns to  protect the kids. 

          In Florida, students did the protesting that guns should be banned in schools so that there would be no lives put in danger , but the government has declined it.Nowadays it is easier to buy a gun.This is also considered as part of increasing in number of mass shootings happening in the country.   According to the New York Times, reports have shown that 17 were killed in six minutes in the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland by a former student who is 19 years old named Nikolas Cruz. Government is working on increasing the minimum age for students to carry on their own guns.People’s trust on government is decreasing as studies have shown that 77% of Americans think that Republican controlled Congress is not doing enough. So people are taking their own steps such as protesting, doing campaigns to protect themselves. With the help of Social media they are really sending the message that we need to take a step to protect ourselves. There was also same case come to the government in Orlando last year and nothing ever happened.

     In the poster there is a boy holding a Kinder chocolate egg and there is a girl holding a gun. They both are standing in a classroom holding their stuff. Both are trying to aware people holding things to show them that we are still doing the same thing over and over again which is staying silent. The ad is form Moms Demand Action which are trying to aware everyone from the gun assaults happening in the US. The ad is provoking the audience with their powerful message, “ one child is holding something that been banned in America to protect them. Guess which one” that we should allow kids to have gun so that they can protect themselves first. 

          Both the kids in the advertisement are looking straight in your eyes having confidence that guns should be allowed for their protection. One is Asian and the other girl is white conveying the message that it is happening all around the world and nobody is doing anything to stop the gun violence. On the board it has an announcement that says no more class on Tuesday which means the whole school is trying to convey the message that the gun violence is not only  causing distraction in our lives but also affecting the kids future.The advertisement is using pathos by showing the kids to get the attention of the world. People who have lost their kids or families who have lost any member during the shooting ,the ad  is connecting everyone for the awareness that we need to take step to stop this. Whatever has happened in the country can still be controlled. Using kids in the ads attract more audience as this way they can see the loss that has happened over the past years.

    The ad is comparing that how a chocolate has been banned in US by saying that it is not good for the kids health whereas with the gun being banned same thing is being repeated. By banning the gun students are risking their lives and some are also losing it.Waiting for the help to come at door many kids have lost their lives at very young age without exploring it. Many are having these thoughts that teacher should provide the chance of living by allowing them to carry guns at school and save the life of kids.Ethos in this ad is how many parents especially, the mothers are concerned about their kids lives. For them their kids are their priority and should been provided guns to protect themselves. 

   After the Las Vegas massacre people started sharing the post that has banned the Kindle chocolate because it contains unpasteurized milk but the guns are legal in the States.This is getting the attention of everyone around the world that, it is not fair. People were demanding that there should be some changes in the gun law but nothing has affected the comparison. As some, are really against the ban of the chocolate by saying that how can the chocolate choke the kids. People are making fun of such things that how the comparison of a chocolate with a gun provides no  justice.

     Many cases has come in front, since 1989 seven reports were issued that the kids death occurred because of the kinder chocolate eggs and the toys and so is the gun holding ,  delivering the same message that it can kill kids too and parents need to be careful. Millions of the kids are dying because they can’t help themselves to save their lives so the ad says moms doesn’t want to repeat it and by having a gun with the kids they at least can backup themselves from such shootings. This action can be really turn out the safest method of protection.Whenever these types of incidents happens with the shootings we can control it if we have guns with ourselves. That’s what the moms demand for their kids through this ads. FBI has found that in such accidents there are 160 active shooters that successfully have  armed civilized so, guns should be allowed.

            Overall, the message that the ad is delivering is that guns should be allowed in schools for students for their own safety so whenever the accident happen they are ready to prevent it.As Jack Solomon in his essay has said that ads can be manipulative or can aware people with their hidden message in it. However , sometimes the ways to show the awareness are really hard to deliver to people so that they can get it correctly. The ad is trying to show people that they need to stand for themselves as the gun violence instead of decreasing is increasing. The only way to get through the problem is when you have a solution and to prevent gun violence in schools students or the staff  need guns to defend themselves. Shootings are still happening in every part of the country, for our own protection we need better gun laws and government is working very slow and people are now solving the problems in their way. The only solution they think is providing guns to ourselves for our own betterment. 



Work cited :

“Guns in Elementary, Middle, and High Schools.” EverytownResearch.org, 3 Feb. 2017, everytownresearch.org/guns-in-elementary-middle-and-high-schools/.

JULIE TURKEWITZ and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. “Florida School Shooting Survivors Take Gun Control Message on the Road.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 20 Feb. 2018, .

Rose  Hill.“Why People Are Sharing Picture of Kinder Egg and Brie after Las Vegas Shooting.” Mirror, 3 Oct. 2017, .

Khoo, Isabelle. “Kinder Surprise USA: Why These Eggs Are Banned South Of The Border.” HuffPost Canada, HuffPost Canada, 25 Oct. 2016, .

NESTEL, M.L., et al. “Florida School Shooting Now among Deadliest Gun Massacres in US History.” ABC News, ABC News Network, 15 Feb. 2018, abcnews.go.com/US/10-deadliest-mass-shootings-modern-us-history/story?id=50234345.

“Incidents in 2018.” Gun Violence Archive, www.gunviolencearchive.org/reports/total-number-of-incidents.

