Intelligence Defined Through Exams



	Throughout the past twelve years of my life as a student I’ve become accustomed to the constant wave of examinations given to me every year. It was a normal day during my junior year of high school when we were all assembled in the auditorium for a meeting on the topic regarding the SAT’s and ACT’s. I couldn’t get why it was such a big deal until they described to me that this test was so important for my future education as well as determining my success and then this realization hit me: why is my intelligence defined through this one exam? How could this one score determine the college I could get into? Many questions rattled through my mind as I start stressing over this one mere test. This is the case for many students currently in school all around America. School examinations are a system of tests that America seems to be very fond of using whenever they need to distinguish students that are “intelligent” from those who are “less intelligent.” Stating that examinations really provide an accurate measurement of the intelligence of an individual would inevitably be “limited as the examination itself” says Peter Tait.

	The term intelligence is a common word to many people, as it is defined as the ability to “apply knowledge and skills.” Therefore, to prove your intelligence, it must be shown only through the fastest and most convenient way possible—exams. 

	David Thomas, a principal at ASU provides theories on intelligence. One theory describes intelligence as being stable throughout someone’s life—the other—describes that intelligence grows over time and is malleable. The main focus should be on education, not a persons grade, Thomas says. “Getting an ‘A’ on a test will not mean anything if you cannot apply the material you learned to real-life situations” he argues. A prime example— Bill Gates—a Harvard dropout who stayed two years into his degree but quit, yet became the co-founder of Microsoft. “He is intelligent, and yet he did not have a college degree when he started his company explains Thomas.

Provided this, standardized tests soon grew in popularity within America when the “No Child Left Behind” program was initiated in 2002. This required students ranging from “grades 3 through 8 were required to takes standardized tests every year in order to determine the quality of public education for all students” says Evelyn Lee. However, this caused many students performed poorly even though they graduated from high school, some even were not prepared for college claims Ivan Silverberg. Another attempt in fixing this issue was the Common Core Standards Initiative in 2009 which are set milestones for students for English, Language Arts and Mathematics, but many local and state governments hand out their own tests, which explains why many schools give out too much tests says Silverberg. “Standardized tests aren’t an accurate measure of the quality of a student’s education, or even of a student’s intellect” says Lee. In fact, SAT scores actually don’t say much about how well you do in school, but instead the main determinant within the applications is your high school GPA instead says Sarah Sheffer on “Do ACT and SAT scores really matter?” Sheffer explains that “the human mind is simply so complex and so multifaceted and fluid, that trying to find a single measurement tool that will be reliable across the enormous populations of American students is simply a trip up”. “If people spent the same amount of time working to ensure they retain important information as they did pulling all nighters to cram for finals, they could become more intelligent” says Thomas, “Students should focus on developing their critical thinking and problem-solving skills rather than simply memorizing information for a test.”

Not only that but signs of lack in education and poverty were correlated, as seen in a report called “Early Warning Confirmed” by Annie E. Casey Foundation—there was a distinct gap between “poverty and achievement” that grow farther apart over time between “low-income and wealthier families.” Meaning that a “family’s position in the income distribution and their children’s academic achievement has grown substantially stronger during the last half century” explains Lee. “These tests often show inherent biases.” due to your socioeconomic status…[there] is a standard deviation—roughly around three to six years of learning in reading tests at kindergarten entry shown through an analysis from studies in Stanford University by Sean Reardon. 

Studies such as Early Warnings created a sense of urgency around third-grade reading proficiency says Casey— as such program evaluations were made to broaden their awareness on the developmental spectrum during the earliest years of childhood. But, dreaded tests [were] born of good intentions says Sheffer. Rather than representing the intelligence of every student, it has become more efficient to make representative samples of the population through standardized tests—explained by Anya Kamenetz in “What Schools Could Use Instead of Standardized Tests.” 

Intelligence testing is also accused of not only being unfair to test-takers by “race, gender, class and culture” says Etienne Benson in “Intelligent intelligence testing” but it also “[minimizes] the importance of creativity, and practical know-how.” Denver Post in their article “Standardized tests are killing our student’s creativity, desire to learn” expresses that students are “so immersed in [a] sea of testing that they do not see the figurative nature of language and naively think that the monster they have created is helping children” Post explains that political leaders “bent under the pressure of businessmen wearing the masks of ‘rigor’ and ‘accountability’ have sacrificed our children's joy of learning on the altar of expediency.”

Many discussions were made on the basis of the “No Child Left Behind” as well as the “Common Core Standards Initiative” as it has been long overdue because these requirements have become a growing concern to parents in communities about the number of tests that children have to take and the amount of time they spend taking them says Kamentz. She explains that the Council of Chief State School Officers and many of America’s largest school districts have shared their ideals in reducing the number of standardized tests students take.”

“Standardized tests make it easy to measure school performances all around America, but does it really evaluate a student’s readiness and ability to create a career through exams?” says Room 241 Team from Concordia University-Portland. Policymakers may have failed to consider most alternatives to standardized tests to create a more fair and valid measurement of intelligence. “Close your eyes for a minute and daydream” says Kamenetz, “a world without bubble tests.” 







Works Cited 



VOA. “Are Children Taking Too Many Tests?” VOA, VOA, 11 Nov. 2015, learningenglish.voanews.com/a/are-children-taking-too-many-tests/3052273.html.



Sutherland, Ashley. “Grades Don't Correlate with a Student's Intelligence.” The Arizona State Press, 27 Apr. 2017, .



“Do Standardized Tests Accurately Show Students' Abilities?” Concordia University-Portland, 8 Dec. 2017, education.cu-portland.edu/blog/news/do-standardized-test-show-an-accurate-view-of-students-abilities/.



Kamenetz, Anya. “What Schools Could Use Instead Of Standardized Tests.” NPR, NPR, 6 Jan. 2015, .



Sheffer, Sarah. “Do ACT and SAT Scores Really Matter? New Study Says They Shouldn't.” PBS, Public Broadcasting Service, 18 Feb. 2014, .



“Standardized Tests Don't Measure Intelligence or Ability ‹ Pepperdine Graphic.” Pepperdine Graphic, pepperdine-graphic.com/standardized-tests-dont-measure-intelligence-or-ability/.



Tait, Peter. “'Intelligence Cannot Be Defined by Exams'.” The Telegraph, Telegraph Media Group, 17 June 2015, www.telegraph.co.uk/education/educationopinion/11678216/Intelligence-cannot-be-defined-by-exams.html.



