Steps to success essay

	The very first step to success in gaming is to first figure out what kind of gaming system I want to play on. There are a lot of ways to play, I could play on PC, Playstation, Xbox, or mobile. Any way that I decide to play can be good as long as I'm having fun. Most people say that PC gaming is the best because you can make your own system and choose what type of power you get. Others say console gaming is the best because you don't have to spend a lot of money like you do when you build a PC.

	The second step to success in gaming is to know what kinds of games I want to play. There are many categories to choose from there is action, adventure, r.p.g., sports, fantasy, shooting, fighting, etc. What I like to play are sports, shooting, and fighting games. It is up to me to choose what I want to play. I could play anytime that interest me to be successful.

	The third step to success in gaming is to put time into what I play. This is important because I have to put in time in order to make sure I understand the games I play. I also need to put time into what I play so I have enough practice to not make simple mistakes. Taking time in what I play will make me have better success in becoming great. This will help me have more skills than anyone I play against.

	The fourth step is to start to play against other people to get more skill. This is a key step because playing against others shows how good your skills are. I could play online or locally either way I can test my skill. If I didn't play against real people I would never know how good I am because the computer doesn't resemble a real person. Playing real people I can find out what I need to improve on and what I do good while playing.

	The fifth and final step is to go to a tournament. This is the best thing I could win to be called the best. This would determine if I am the greatest person to play whatever game I chose to enter the tournament in. This actually puts you up against the best people around the world who have the same or more skill than I have. If I complete the tournament and come out the winner I have had success in gaming in my opinion. 