MLK and the People’s Response to the Vietnam War

	Martin Luther King, Jr. had many reasons for his opposition to the war in Vietnam. He went on to discuss these reasons with the public in the delivery of his sermon “Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam” on April 30th of 1967 at Riverside Church in New York, NY. In this sermon Martin Luther King, Jr. called the Vietnam War “an unjust, evil, and futile war”. King felt as though the war was inhumane and that those who supported the war had lost their values and their sense of compassion. He even went on to call the support of the war “superficial patriotism” because a lot of people supported the war blindly to prove that they are loyal to the United States or to show that they were supposedly standing up for freedom without actually knowing what was going on. King also believed that those who stayed neutral about the war were just as bad as those who had supported it because they remained silent as the war progressed. King discussed how he opposed the war because it took a significant amount of funding away from the Great Society programs created by Lyndon B. Johnson that provided hope specifically for those who were living in poverty. He went on to discuss similar issues that showed how the war unfairly and negatively affected the poor and the war did not reflect positively on the United States. King also felt as though he had to be the one to take a stand because he had received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964. In this sermon, King delivers a powerful speech that divided many but clearly got people on all sides of the war to speak up about their views on Vietnam.

	The population was clearly very divided when it came to whether or not they had supported the war in Vietnam. This became more of a common topic after King’s sermon because people began to discuss whether they agreed with his opposition. According to a Louis Harris survey, “Today 73% of the American people disagree with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in his denunciations of the war in Vietnam.”. Although it is not made entirely clear how people were surveyed, this is a very high percentage of people who opposed King’s views on the war. As King said in his sermon, “men do not easily assume the task of opposing their government’s policy, especially in time of war.” This statement may be the truth and it may prove that the survey does not reflect the true stance of the Americans that were surveyed. Even if the survey was an accurate reflection of American’s views, King still got the people to do something. He got the people to speak up and discuss the war instead of continuing to be a blind supporter.

	Many people seemed to be afraid to speak out against what the government was doing in Vietnam. However, King was not the only well known person to speak out and express their opposition to the war. Another person who chose to speak out was a professional boxer, Muhammed Ali. By doing so, he became an activist. Alongside King, Ali also linked the civil rights movement to the war in Vietnam. Ali got a more attention after he refused to go fight in the army. He was very open about why he was opposed to going to fight in the war. In an interview he said, “You want me to do what the white man says and go fight a war I don’t know nothing about—get some freedom for some other people when my own people can’t get theirs?” In this quote, Ali is openly opposing the war because, like many others, he was not aware about why we were really fighting and why it was the United States that had to get involved. He also expressed annoyance because of the fact that the United States and its people were supporting the war claiming they are spreading democracy and preserving people’s freedom in another country when they were not doing the same for their own people back home. Sure, some laws had been passed that were supposed to help “inferior” races but they were still not equal. The laws were always either not enough to actually make them equal or people found loopholes to promote inequality or white people simply disobeyed the laws because they believed that they were the “superior race”. Ali also talked about how not only was he not given the correct freedoms because he was not white, he also felt that he did not have the freedom to practice own religion because he was not a Christian man. Because Ali opposed the war and spoke out this way people looked for ways to strip his influence and any credibility he had as well. Some communications brokers decided that “Ali was just a misguided fool who had thrown away millions, a physical man enslaved by the dark powers of the Black Muslims… a barely literate simple Negro athlete…”. The way they quickly and widely dismissed Ali made it even more difficult to get others to speak up regarding their opposition to the war and anything else that seemed to go against the government’s actions.

	People who opposed King did not just stop at opposition to King himself. According to Harris, “The opposition of Dr. King to Mr. Johnson could produce unexpected support for the President from pro-Vietnam and anti-civil rights voting blocs.” Not only did some people disagree with what King had to say, they did not want to support the people he would choose to support. It was clear that King opposed Johnson and the way he was dealing with the war. Because of this known opposition, Johnson may have gained some support because people did not want to give King what he believed was right. A majority of these anti-civil rights and pro-Vietnam people were coming from places that claimed to be the most patriotic and that were not for racial equality, the south. King did have a strong influence on many Americans; however, it was not always as positive as he may have wished it to be. 

	One of the groups that came out in opposition to King and his views toward the war in Vietnam was the Marine Corps Reserve officers. They believed that the way people like King had went out to openly oppose the war was unpatriotic and shows disloyalty to the United States and their army.  One general expressed his views saying, “So much attention is being given at home to the dissidents, the rioters, the draft card business, the sign carriers and the slogan shouters, that at times they overshadow the vast panorama of the more dedicated three million Americans who proudly wear the uniform of our country.”. In saying this the general hit many sides of those who opposed the war. He called those who were not fighting in the war less loyal to their country. He expressed his annoyance at the fact that at some points, maybe even a majority of the time, people gave more of their attention to the people who were protesting the war rather than praising those who were fighting the war in Vietnam. The General clearly felt disrespected because he felt as though the people were not only against the war, but against the people who fought in it to support the United states as well. He did not take the time to think about why the people may have been opposed to the war, he just thought that the United States was already involved so the people should show respect and support them. Though in his own defense, the people fighting were his own soldiers and were people he knew so to see them dying in a war like this would have only strengthened his views. He may have very effectively shut down some of the people protesting. Even though he was opposed to everything King had had to say about the war, King still influenced another group of people. He managed to get the general and many others in his group to think about their views on the war and also convinced them to speak openly about the war. By doing so, they have made conversation about the war less of an abnormality. 

	Others opposed King’s opposition to the war in Vietnam for different reasons. Some believed that the way that King, a civil rights leader, tried to link the war in Vietnam to the civil rights movement would not reflect positively for the civil rights movement. Some people like Stokely Carmichael said things referring to King such as, “Such persons… are doing irreparable harm to the cause of civil rights by seeking to link the civil rights movement with their own criminal attempts to persuade young men to avoid military service.” Many are aware that this was not the intention of King and his fellow civil rights leaders, but it was easy for people who opposed King to make statements like this and spread them like wildfire. People who believed that King’s opposition to the war was a betrayal to the United States would also believe and spread any thing they could that would reflect badly on King. It is believable that people who were opposed to the civil rights movement, or anti-civil rights, would also do anything to make King a less influential leader even if it meant spreading false statements about what he was really trying to do. Others may have believed that they should not have made an effort to link the civil rights movement and the Vietnam war for other another reason. They may have felt that just linking what was supposed to be a positive movement for equality in the United States to the war in Vietnam was not a good thing simply because they believed that it was such an evil, unjust war and it could never benefit or reflect positively on the movement. 

	King had a very strong impact on the conversation of the Vietnam War, that is an undeniable fact. Though he may not have had the impact he wanted on different groups of people, he still managed to get a large amount of people to join a controversial conversation. People had very strong views on the war so it would have been very difficult to get them to think about their position on it and King did this. That was probably the most anyone could have done because since they joined the conversation, they could see some of the true tragedies of the war. Many may not have changed their standpoints but at least they were no longer walking around as the governments brainless zombies trying to prove that they are loyal to the United States.