11am Tues & Thurs



	

	In America there are many problems we face in our education system, and students are the ones who are most affected. In these essays they talk about some of the factors that hurt our education system and the kids within the education system. The authors in these articles touch on subjects like the U.S. education system and how it’s not funded for classes students need for their future career, issues the teachers , and finally the poor conditions of the school for other student necessities. American schools, according to the articles are not giving a full education to each student, and are leading students on to graduate  without becoming correctly prepared for higher education.



	In Jonathan Kozol’s report on Fremont high school, with the help of students and some staff from the school he sheds light on the unavailable student resources and necessities, issues with teachers, and problems students face with classes.  Fremont High School is located in south central LA ,with approximately 5,000 students and students  in 9th grade on average are able to read at a 4th or kl;/ast.y 5th grade level according to Kozol’s report.



	In the report the teachers start off by addressing the lunch period for students and staff,” the entire period only lasts 30 mins” (qtd in Kozol). The teachers claim that 30 minutes isn’t enough time for each student to properly refresh themselves from their long period classes. Students should be able to eat and use the facilities within these 30 minutes, but the teachers also state that, when the lunch period starts it takes “15 minutes” to walk to the lunch area, and “10 minutes” to eat, which doesn’t allow students to get the brain food to last the rest of the school day.



	Another issue that Kozol addresses are comfortable learning environments and student necessities, and for students at Fremont High School everything is limited. A student at Fremont asked a question, “Can we talk about the bathrooms” (qtd. in Kozol pg 718), Kozol then gives us insight on a court document that states Fremont high has 15 fewer bathrooms than the law requires, and in the report it says only “one or two” are open and unlocked for girls and not properly stocked with toiletries necessary. The students then argue that, they become embarrassed when they need to explain why they need to use the restroom, and leads them to not being able to fully concentrate in class. add on to bathroom privileges students say the teachers reject student bathroom privileges during class times because they had the chance to do so during their break, but as the teachers and students said about break times, is that there isn’t enough time to do so during breaks due to long corridors, and a short amount of break time.



	 After the students of Fremont high describe the poor conditions of facilities and give their opinion on their teachers not letting them use the restroom during class time, they then lead on to course requirements within the school and how they feel about taking unnecessary classes. Kozol speaks with a student of Fremont and finds out she has a career path of being a doctor or social worker, the school wasn’t able to place the student  in the correct course that would lead her down the correct path, instead the student was placed into a sewering class and another course called life skills, the student describes these classes as “a retarted class” (qtd in Kozol pg 720). Later on in Kozol’s report he views a teacher meeting and the teachers argue that the students would be able to obtain more knowledge through a elective course that would have some type of academic substance within it. 



	In the next article Finland’s School Success by Anu Partanen, she points out the differences in the education systems of the U.S  and Finland. In Partanen’s article she explains the individual grading done with students, Finlands no child left behind policy and the qualifications for someone to become a teacher and how important teachers are for students. Partanen goes over where Finland stands with its test scores of students, “near the top” A.Partenan (pg 977) and the U.S is near the middle on this scale. The United States is a competitive state and are obsessed with questioning performance, how to improve and so on Partanen claims, but Finland doesn’t compete as a Finland writer says “real winners do not compete” (qtd in Partanen).


	In the united states a bachelors degree, but in the text it states Finland require all teachers to go higher into education for masters degree in order to teacher students. Finland seems to have no time for bad teachers in their education system, they include teaching programs to make sure who they are evaluation is fit to teach students. Partenen then talks about accountability and responsibility for teachers, “ Accountability is something that is left when responsibility is subtracted” (qtd in Partenen, with this the author means it is not a teachers responsibility to teach but they are accountable for the students they are teaching.

	Partanen finds information which leads to why its education system is near the top of list and claims that Finland students are valuable. To keep students with a creative mind and not under stress they assign less homework and more creative play. Finlands students are important to them and their education n matters, and in order to make sure each student is able to understand what is being taught, each student is individually helped and they progress is kept track of. In addition to individual grading for students finland has no standardized test to keep track of students as a whole, each student is a different person none are the same, this is helpful for their educational progress.



	With the help of teachers students are individually assessed, and kept track of, but in the United States this doesn’t happen. Partanen goes over a policy that the Finland education system uses called “no child left behind policy”. The author claims that “every child should have exactly the same opportunity to learn”, this policy gives every student a chance to learn without being judged on their background. With this policy in Finland all schools are public with very few private schools, unlike in America which the author states has $35000 for tuition in its schools. Partanen then argues that “To possess some of the best schools in the world might not sill be good enough if their are children being left behind. Within Kozols report he goes over the reading level of students in 9th grade and the drop out rate prior to 12th grade, with this information you can see the differences in Finland education and us education.



	With both of these articles about two different education systems in two different areas off the world, they were able to go over the issues and the positive effects of different education methods. Kozol reports on Fremont High with their poor teaching conditions and poor student environment which in text is said in detail from the voice of the students and staff of Fremont is bad. Within Partanen’s article she studies the Finland education system and how they have helped their students and not let them fall behind they matter the most. 



































Work Cited 





Kozol, Jonathan. The Shame Of The Nation: The Restoration Of Apartheid Schooling In America. New York : Crown Publishers, 2005. Print.

Anu Partanen. FInlands school success. New York : The Atlanta publishers, 2011 print











