

Patients as Medical Subjects? 

	Is it right to use people as guinea pigs without their knowledge for scientific research? In one study, almost 700 black males were intentionally infected with a disease. The use of patients as medical subjects is inappropriate despite the benefits because it is inhumane, singles out minorities, and causes a distrust in doctors.

	The use of patients as medical subjects is inhumane because scientist only worry about the science and not the patients behind it. In the book The Immortal Life of Henrietta, a woman named Henrietta Lacks cells were sampled without her permission and was grown outside her body. Her cells were everywhere. They titled the cells “HELA” some scientist didn’t even know her name was Henrietta, they simply knew her by HELA. Her cells were known as a vital role in science, yet she received no recognition. Donald Defler a professor stated that it was the most important thing that happened to medicine in the last 100 years (Skloot 4).  Scientist in the past, injected diseases into patients to see how they react. In the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, black males specifically were intentionally injected with syphilis which at the time had no cure. Even when the cure, penicillin, was discover, doctors watched the patients suffer and die. It is inhumane to use patients as scientific subjects because it is causing harm to innocent people.

Patients as medical subjects is inappropriate because it singles out minorities. Uneducated minorities are used for these studies. They have no idea what scientist are capable of. They think that they are getting help for their health problems and specifically poor black people were used. In the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, the patients were told they were getting treated for bad blood. The patients thought they were getting free treatment plus free meals and burial insurance (Center for Disease Control and prevention).  Patients were minorities who were mainly black, poor, and uneducated. They thought that the doctors were helping them when they were really hurting them and watching them suffer and eventually die.

	Finally, patients as medical subjects insinuate a distrust on doctors. Doctors are expected to heal patients, not cause more problems. Doctors have watched their patients suffer and eventually die. This has impacted the black community to this day. As African Americans we rarely go to the doctors because we do not trust them. We don’t know what doctors are capable of, but they have proved in our history that they are capable of a lot. Minorities refuse to go to the doctor or hospital even if their problems are severe.

Opponents of these views present several arguments. They emphasize the medical advances made due to the use of patients as medical subjects. They also claim that without what we have done in the past we would not have come as far in science. Furthermore, they argue that that these studies have helped discover cures to diseases.

	However, these views may easily be refuted. While there are numerous benefits to the medical field, there are plenty of people willing to be a part of a study instead of doing it behind a patient’s back. In fact, more than 72% of Americans said that it was likely for them to volunteer in a scientific studies (Elsevier). The argument that it has helped find the cure for many diseases may be easily refuted by the fact that we have found plenty of cures without using patients as medical subjects without their permission. 

	In conclusion, the use of patients as medical subjects is inhumane because it allows scientist to cause harm on innocent patients. It also singles out minorities who are uneducated and poor because they aren’t aware and enjoy the so-called benefits. Finally, it causes a major distrust of doctors, especially in the black community because of our bad history with scientists. The use of patients as medical subjects is inhumane, singles out minorities, and causes a distrust on doctors. 

	



























Works Cited

Elsevier. “Poll: Majority of Americans Would Participate in Clinical Trials If Recommended by Doctor.” 1st Edition, Butterworth-Heinemann, 31 July 2013, www.elsevier.com/connect/poll-majority-of-americans-would-participate-in-clinical-trials-if-recommended-by-doctor.

Skloot, Rebecca. The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Crown Publishers, 2010.

“U.S. Public Health Service Syphilis Study at Tuskegee.” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Aug. 2017, www.cdc.gov/tuskegee/timeline.htm.

