	For decades, the fashion industry has defined what beauty is and what it should look like. It is magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan that showcase ads that display young, thin, light-skin women as what beauty is. Society has come to believe that you can only be beautiful if you are skinny and follow the trends. 
Girls get the message from very early on that what's most important is how they look, that their value, their worth depends on that. And boys get the message that this is what's important about girls. We get it from advertising. We get it from films. We get it from television shows, video games, everywhere we look. So no matter what else a woman does, no matter what else her achievements, their value still depends on how they look 

 (Jean Kilbourne).

But now American beauty has been redefining itself as this country becomes more and more diverse, which is why Vogue released an ad in March of 2017 to not only celebrate their 125 years but also to celebrate diversity. Unfortunately, it fails at doing so. 

	Vogue is one of the most popular magazines in the fashion industry. It was found in 1892 as a weekly newspaper, which now has expanded to monthly with so many editions of the magazine. This magazine is well respected, so them coming out with this ad was expected to not be disappointing. The new editor, Edward Enninful, made it his mission to bring more diversity into the magazine. “Enninful styled a shoot for his then employer, the New York-based W magazine, in which a range of ethnically diverse models climb the stairs of an imaginary ‘Supreme Court’”(Nissen 

In this ad, there are 7 of the most well known models in the industry: , , , , , , and  (Singer). Behind them is a private Malibu beach, with light and clean sand. They are wear black turtleneck tops, in a way of representing unity, but individually, each one of these women represents their own type of beauty and culture through the different bottoms they wear. The first model, going from left to right, is Liu Wen. She is wearing blue patterned shorts, leaning left toward the rest of the girl, and also representing Asian ethnicity. The next model following is Ashley Graham, wearing black shorts with white stripe and representing plus sized women. Third is Kendall Jenner, wearing light pink shorts with Model Gigi Hadid, wearing green patterned shorts. These two models reflect best friends. Following is Imaan Hammam, wearing blue with green patterned shorts, leaning in to the right and representing a darker complexion. At the end is Adwoa Aboah with beige shorts, representing britistish ethnicity and Vittoria Ceretti with red patterned shorts, representing an Italian background. All 7 models are close together and hugging one another, demonstrating that they all get along.  Vogue prints “Women Rule. Fashion’s Fearless Females. The Beauty Revolution. No Norm is the New norm. 125 years of Vogue. The Celebration Begins.” Through this cover ad, Vogue emphasizes that Beauty should show no limits. Beauty is who you are and who ever you want to be. They emphasize that following no norm and being your own person is the new norm.  Model Liu Wen succeeded with this ad. Her fans and herself were happy with the way the cover came out because it allowed a model from Asian decent to be recognized. 

Despite criticism, Wen, a Chinese beauty with over 2.5 million Instagram followers — and the first Asian woman to grace American Vogue’s cover — revealed in the story that she has high hopes for inclusion thanks to the photo-sharing platform. “Many Asian models now have incredible recognition and success at home first, and then they start booking jobs internationally,” Liu revealed. “I think this stems, in part, from the rise of social media, which is connecting societies in new, intricate ways, and changing all of our perspectives” (Underwood).

While Vogue seems to be appealing toward diversity, it fails at being diverse enough in this ad.

First off, it fails because the women in this ad merely fit the description of the “norm” that Vogue is trying to steer away from when they say “No Norm is the New Norm.” Vogue’s “How Models Like Ashley Graham and Gigi Hadid Are Democratizing Fashion” by Maya Singer, critics Agnolo Firenzuola, A Dialogue on the Beauty of Women, as comical, when Vogues models fit right into the descriptions that Firenzuola gives. Singer writes “From his position as the standard-bearer for all-American sportswear, Kors notes that his embrace of heterogeneity has a political subtext, too. It points to the United States’ identity as a nation of immigrants and its core value, established in the Constitution, of free expression for all” (Singer). Vogue’s ad strips away from the value of being “a nation of immigrants.” Vogue stated “In a climate of immigration bans and building walls, the biggest names in 2017 make the case that there isn’t just one type of American girl—nor has there ever been.” (Singer), as the reason to why this ad cover was created. Each of these girls is supposed to represent a type of American girl. The average American girl is not six feet tall and a size zero in clothing though. Women who see this ad will not be proud of themselves the way they should be, but rather look at this ad and think that they do not belong in America because of how different they look from those models. 

Secondly, they are lacking the use of having women of different shapes and background by only using well known celebrity model as a way of appealing to women. Many will strive to be like these models because Vogue’s version of diversity is not the same as the rest of society’s version. According to the CNN style article, “Vogue's 'diverse' March cover slammed as not so diverse,”  it is stated that readers of the magazine are not convinced that Vogue is stepping out of the “fashion industry's narrow parameters”(Larkin). To step out meant to use women of all shapes, sizes, and colors. They have stuck to the same “beauty codes” that have been used for the last couple of decades. 

Many criticize the editors of this shot because of the positioning of plus sized model,

Ashley Graham. Additionally, commenters took issue with how Ashley was posed for the cover shot. They pointed out that her arm was the only one resting on a thigh, which arguably covers up her torso. Eagle-eyed Twitter users also thought there was something fishy about the placement of Gigi Hadid's arm and hand — a Photoshop tactic they claimed was meant to cover up Ashley's stomach (Torgerson).

Vogue tried to cover this model’s natural body and stuck to the norm of a slim model. To use a plus sized model, should mean to embrace her and her beauty and not hide it. By photoshopping this image, it is saying that being big isn't beautiful and not part of being diverse. Graham reminds everyone that "Sixty-seven percent of the women in America wear a size 14 or larger... Maybe you could ignore those consumers before, but now, thanks to social media, they're making their voices heard... What they want is to be visible”(Larkin). 

	Lastly, Vogue is missing diversity in skintone of the models. US Magazine’s Khalea Underwood, wrote on the opinions that readers had gave. One stated that “Where the dark skin women at”(Underwood). Which is true because all the models are fairly light. It has been an ongoing problem in the fashion world. No one in the industry seems to have brought attention to women of darker skin color. They are often left behind when it comes to the industry. For example makeup like foundation, women of darker complexion are often stuck choosing between 2 to 3 shades while the average lighter complexion has the range to choose from 7 to 8 different shades. 

	The Fashion Industry has always dominated when it comes to defining what beauty is. This Vogue ad is a display though, simply an example, of how it the industry will not longer dominate. Many women, and Men as well, are sharing their thoughts and having their voices heard. Soon it will be the people deciding what happens, not just in the fashion industry but also in nation affairs like politics. Vogue’s message of a woman’s individuality is the new norm failed to cross because the lack of diversity put into the models they chose. It would of worked if they chose to use ordinary women of more color, shape, and size. 













Work Cited

Larkin, Alexandra. “Vogue's 'Diverse' Cover Slammed as Not Diverse.” CNN, Cable News

 Network, 10 Feb. 2017, .



Nissen, Aleydis. “Vogue Magazine's Complicated Relationship with Diversity.” The 

Independent, Independent Digital News and Media, 6 Aug. 2017, .



Singer, Maya. “How Models Like Ashley Graham and Gigi Hadid Are Democratizing 

Fashion.”Vogue, Vogue, 25 May 2017, .



Torgerson, Rachel. “Vogue's ‘Diverse’ Cover Slammed for Not Being Diverse 

Enough.”Cosmopolitan, Cosmopolitan, 7 Oct. 2017, .



Underwood, Khalea. “Vogue's 'Diverse' Cover Draws Ire From Readers.” Us Weekly, 8 Feb. 2018, .









