             Pollution	

What is Pollution you might ask. Well let me tell you. First, there is water pollution, it is a contamination and is found in the lakes and beaches.  According to the article What is Pollution? It states, “Water Pollution is defined as the presence in ground water of toxic chemicals and biological agents that exceed what is naturally found in the water and may pose a threat to human and/or the environment” You may ask what causes water pollution to happen; consequently, it is caused by human activities. Second, there is air pollution which is harmful substance in the air and the cause of air pollution is energy use. Many people aren’t informed of what to do to prevent water and air pollution. Consequently, Anytown was at higher risk of pollution. According to the article Anytown ranks No. 1 on the state's pollution list it states, “But nowhere are there more of the worst-affected areas than in Anytown — in particular a 3,000-person tract of the city's west side where diesel exhaust, tainted water, pesticides and poverty conspire to make it No. 1 on [the state]'s toxic hit list”. A lot of people may not be aware of the effects we are causing for pollution to happen. There is a lot of ways people can do to prevent pollution.

Pollution was the cause I have asthma because of the bad air I inhale. Air pollution makes my asthma worse and sometimes I can’t breathe as much when there’s bad air quality. There is things I can’t do like in the yard because then it gets hard for me to breath because of the dust and air. There is some fragrances that if I inhale I start having trouble breathing; therefore, I need to be careful of what fragrances I must in my home. I have to have my house and especially my room clean because if not I’m breathing all the dust and I have to give my house a good ventilation such as having or opening windows or the doors. I get more affected more in the summer since the pollution is higher. I don’t have the freedom as other people because they can do things I can’t such as breathing air without having the feeling that they can’t breathe. Some don’t know that I don’t have the freedom to just go out and not have an inhaler because if I don’t carry an inhaler I can end up in an emergency room. I need to carry the inhaler everywhere I go because I depend on that inhaler if I have trouble breathing that helps me to control my respiration problem.

Air pollution is causing a lot of health problems to everyone; therefore, the number of deaths is now greater. According to the article, Air pollution: a dark cloud of filth poisons the world’s cities it states, “The number of annual deaths caused by pollution around the world is now greater than malaria and HIV combined…”. So, it is a big problem in today’s society. There’s high levels of pollution which caused people to get sick. Pollution is growing and growing; therefore, it is causing more sickness. People are getting the symptoms of asthma due to the bad air quality. Air pollution is making it worse for the people who have asthma because it is hard for them to breath. According to the article Air Pollution and Asthma Foundation of America it states, “Research shows that air pollution can worsen asthma symptoms… Another study found that older adults were more likely to visit the emergency room for breathing problems…”.  Ozone is the common air pollutants which its bad since its gas and its going into the air which we breath. It leads for individuals to have chronic respiratory problems, lung cancer and other diseases that there is due to pollution.

Did You know that air pollutions are in your home too? According to the article Air Pollution and Asthma it states, “Your home might even be a “high priority public health risk” This is probably where you are exposed to most allergens and irritants”. It is also in your inside your home because of the gases like carbon monoxide. Did you know that indoor air pollution include cosmetics, perfumes, hair sprays, air-refreshing sprays, motorcycles, etc... According to article Air Pollution and Asthma. So there’s also pollution in your homes and stuff surrounding your home and inside your home especially because we think that our home is clean when in reality it’s not that clean. According to the article When The air in your home is more polluted than outside it states “People are not as aware of indoor air pollution,” Levy says. “If you say ‘air pollution’ to someone, they think about the large factory or the diesel vehicle, and they don’t necessarily think about what is happening inside their homes.” It’s the daily stuff you do that is causing indoor air pollution like turning on the stove, smoking, cleaning products, etc.

Water Pollution is contamination in the water and water bodies. According to the article What is Pollution it states, “There are various classifications of water pollution. The two chief sources of water pollution can be seen as Point and Nonpoint”. You might ask what is Point and Nonpoint? Let me tell you. Point is pollutants that are from only one single source. Nonpoint is pollutants that are from many or other several parts of sources. The causes of water pollution are Industrial waste, wastewater, garbage from households, oil that goes in the sea, chemicals, etc.

Water pollution is also a big problem because it is affecting the animals and there getting killed by the pollutants. Did you know that it affects the animals natural food chain due to pollution? According to the article What are the effects of water pollution it states, “The main problem caused by water pollution is that it kills organism that depend on these water bodies. Dead fish, crabs, birds and seagulls, dolphins, and many other animals often wind up on beaches killed by pollutants in their habitat”. It also affects their food chains by disrupting the food chain. Water pollution is very harmful to animals and water life. It is harmful because of the chemicals that go in the water such as chemicals and pollutants. Animals drink that water that is harmful, and they don’t know that is harmful because they depend on the water. According to the article Animals affected by water pollution it states, “If they drink the water they can be killed or if fish swim in water that has been harmed than the fish can die too”. So animals are really affected by water pollution.

Also, did you know that we are also responsible for water pollution because of the trash we dump in the water and human activities. The garbage we throw in the water causes harmful chemicals that affect the water. We just throw trash in the ground without knowing the consequences later. We don’t think in that moment of what can happen like if we throw the bag of chips in the ground that animals are going to get affected. There’s trash been throw in the water and is taking it to the ocean in which it affects other animals.

Lastly, Pollution is causing a big problem in today’s society and we are getting affected as well and animals are also getting affected by pollution. People are getting chronic respiratory problems because of air pollution. Air Pollution is affecting the people who have asthma because they don’t have the freedom to do what other people do in a daily basis. Like I stated in my paragraph I have asthma because of air pollution and I have trouble breathing often because of the air that I breathe. Water pollution is also a problem because animals are getting affect.

 

Vidal, John. “Air Pollution: a Dark Cloud of Filth Poisons the World's Cities.” The Observer, Guardian News and Media, 16 Jan. 2016, 





 “AAFA.” Air Pollution and Asthma | AAFA.org, www.aafa.org/page/air-pollution-smog-asthma.aspx.





What Are the Effects of Water Pollution, eschooltoday.com/pollution/water-pollution/effects-of-water-pollution.html.





Sources and Causes of Water Pollution.” Conserve Energy Future, 3 Jan. 2017, www.conserve-energy-future.com/sources-and-causes-of-water-pollution.php.





Animals Affected by Water Pollution - Water Pollution Solution Crew.” Google Sites, sites.google.com/site/waterpollutionsolutioncrew/animals-affected-by-water-pollution.



Taylor, Marisa. “When The Air In Your Home Is More Polluted Than Outside.” The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 1 Nov. 2017, .

