

The Bold Confrontation That Saved America

	Throughout the United States’ history of wars and military involvement, the Vietnam

War had been one of the most crucial and explosive wars ever fought in terms of the poignant

impact it had on the United States as a whole. This was a war that had only led the United States

to defeat, causing the loss of many of our soldiers along with large amounts of money that

could’ve been used towards causes that could’ve helped America. At the time of the Vietnam 

War, many Americans had controversy on whether they favored the United States’ involvement 

in Vietnam or not. Among these Americans included Martin Luther King; who gave a sermon 

titled “Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam” on April 30, 1967, in New York. In Dr. King’s sermon, he explains his many reasons as to why the Vietnam War was a mistake. Due to our military not having the correct judgement of when the U.S. should’ve pulled out of Vietnam, I completely stand by Dr. King’s resourceful ideas that should have already been indigenous to 

America.

During Dr. King’s sermon, he exclaims his seven reasons as to why he disagrees with the war in Vietnam with his perspective on the current situation of the world. He makes it very clear and indubitable to understand his viewpoint on the war as he feels his message is very important. Dr. King by nature is also full of piety and probity which shows with how strongly he disagrees with the war in Vietnam in his sermon and with his many reasons which proved to be distinct from what the U.S. military government had in mind. 

Although it is evident that Dr. King is a civil rights activist who already disagrees with the act of violence, his reasoning for his disagreement of the war was more than him just being a pacifist; he felt that the government did not have a symbiotic relationship of concern for the public than they should have. He had felt the U.S. government had been this way for too long and decided to abrogate his silence towards the topic by presenting this sermon due to the damage his silence was causing; “There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal”1, as said by Dr. King. 

King understood that breaking this silence would cause for a risk of his job and public reputation as it was a message towards the public of whom was under the government that Dr. King was confronting. He was as didactic as possible by explaining the act of violence as being overall immoral and that the time, money, and other resources spent towards eventually losing the war in Vietnam could’ve been used for boosting the strength of their society. For example, Dr. King really felt that the enormous amounts of money spent in Vietnam could’ve been used to helped those in poverty, therefore boosting the status and strength of America. In his sermon, King stated “… we spend $500,000 to kill each enemy soldier, while we spend only fifty-three dollars for each person classified as poor”1. This statement really outlined and provided the necessary exaggeration for showing the large amounts of the misuse of money being used in a war the U.S. should have already withdrawn from.

“A true revolution of values”1 was another necessity stated by Dr. King in his sermon. The U.S. military spending much more money on its militant costs than helping rebuild America proved to Dr. King that the U.S. did not have the necessary judgement toward seeing the importance of their specific own values. He also felt that the nation was selfish and arrogant due to their inhumane actions of war and torture in Vietnam. “A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death”1, said by Dr. King with his influence of seeing the government not having the correct angle of perspective on America’s health. He truly believed it would be the downfall of the nation if the nation remained dilatory.

As Dr. King concludes his sermon, he calls for the people of America to join him and his perspective of Vietnam to ameliorate the nation. In fact, he says that “It is time for all people of conscience to call upon America to come back home”1, stating that anyone who did not call upon America to come back were inhumane and unjust.  King also felt that it was a mission sent out by God for the people to make it the duty for the nation to change its ways. He states, “…I can hear God saying to America, ‘You’re too arrogant! And if you don’t change your ways, I will rise up and break the backbone of your power”1. Though even after Dr. King’s great efforts in attempt to persuade the nation with his sermon, there were still many Americans that did not agree with his perspective on the war in Vietnam.

At the time of the Vietnam War, the world was still a place full of hatred and racism. This alone had made Martin Luther King’s role hard itself, as he was a black man and who also fights for the equality of African Americans. Many individuals who disagreed with Dr. King’s sermon could have been for reasons as absurd as racism, or for reasons as simple as disagreeing with King on his opinion/perspective. For example, the article titled “Negro Officer Opposes War Protests: Disagrees With Dr. King Finds Bias in Draft” is about Captain McCaskill, a black 

 officer who served in Vietnam that is giving his response to Dr. King’s sermon. In Captain McCaskill’s response, he states that he opposes Dr. King’s sermon and the protests about the war in Vietnam. When explaining his viewpoint on the war, McCaskill states, “They demonstrated their lack of understanding of what we’re doing here”2. McCaskill was referring to King as “they” and felt that King did not completely understand the situation of Vietnam. He felt that most individuals who could comprehend the war in Vietnam and its necessities were mostly only the ones who served in the war. 

	Although, Captain McCaskill did not entirely disagree with every single one of Dr. King’s reasonings in his sermon. For example, McCaskill admits, “Dr. King may have a point when he says we are spending billions of dollars in Vietnam that could be used to help the impoverished Negroes in the cities”2.He reasons with Dr. King’s statement of using the large amounts of money used in the war towards helping poverty, and agrees with it. When reasoning McCaskill also reasonably states, “They didn’t appropriate the money to help the Negroes before the war. Why would they now?”2. McCaskill makes this reasonable assumption, although he does not take into consideration that Dr. King had already known this which is one of the reasons as to why he delivered the sermon to conquer this issue.

	Captain McCaskill’s response was only just an example of one of the many black men that opposed Dr. King’s sermon against the Vietnam War. An article made for reporting the results of a survey was conducted about individuals’ thoughts on Dr. King’s sermon on a total of 1600 people, in which 10 percent were African American. About one-third of the African Americans surveyed had been opposed to King’s sermon, and 60 percent of everyone in the

whole survey was also opposed to King’s sermon3.

	Although the article did not state why everyone felt the way they did towards Dr. King’s sermon, the results showed that people’s thoughts about Dr. King’s sermon could be further than judging his opinion based off his skin tone. Many of the black people surveyed were against King’s sermon, which spoke for itself by showing even many of King’s followers did not agree with his opinion on the war in Vietnam. Dr. King’s reasons in his sermon for his opposition on the war in Vietnam were so controversial that even his civil rights followers began to separate from his following.

	On top of the backlash of Dr. King’s sermon which was losing a large amount of his followers, he also began to be an even more disliked member of society from the government’s point of view. Dr. King was criticized by the government about his sermon and how that he had become an anti-Vietnam war activist and was perceived to be helping the communist allies against America. The government had felt that with Dr. King’s sermon he had been giving communist more attention and respect for being anti-Vietnam. 

	The government also had felt that Dr. King’s sermon had been an attack on the government. When speaking about Dr. King, the Freedom House said that he “emerged as the public spear-carrier of a civil disobedience program that is demagogic and irresponsible in its attacks on our Government”4. Dr. King had become recognized by the government as a man who disrespected his own government and tried to persuade others to do so as well. As Dr. King stated in his sermon, “Now it isn’t easy to stand up for truth and for justice. … Sometimes it means losing a job…means being abused and scorned”1, he began to face this effect towards his reputation as a person and an activist.

	Even after the impact of pejorative words being thrown at Dr. King for his disapproval of the Vietnam war, he said that he would still be speaking out against American involvement in Vietnam. King understood the cons for giving his sermon and still felt it was important for the nation’s attention to be redirected towards removing American soldiers and involvement from Vietnam. Even though Dr. King’s sermon and the attention that it brought along with it towards the Vietnam War was not the cause of the eventual situation of American involvement leaving Vietnam, it was still a factor that helped lead towards that. If the war had kept on going, America could have experienced catastrophic amounts of loss, possibly making the resources used exponential. Dr. King had stated, “If Red China enters the war, there is no way to win. We could kill 300 million and it would be an act of birth control for them”5. He states this to exaggerate the useless effect killing would have if the situation were to only get worse.

	To have a disagreement against a belief itself is bold, but to disagree with your nation and its government about its actions and acts of violence presents a whole another degree of bravery. Dr. King presents this bravery in his sermon for his disagreement of American involvement in Vietnam, which also causes his reputation to be stirred up and looked down upon by some parts of the public including his own government. He sacrificed the public opinion about himself in exchange to get his message and belief across the nation and to save the nation. The Vietnam War might have been ended sooner than it could’ve due to Dr. King’s sermon, the bold confrontation that saved America.