Argumentative Rough draft

In the world today citizens do whatever they feel is necessary, without the consent of others, due to inequality. Signing off on a sheet of paper isn’t something that should be taking lightly, due to its overall purpose. The use of consent should always be represented in a significant way, because it equality and fairness towards others. What the medical team did to henrietta was wrong and unjust because they went out of there way to find out things without her permission. The lack of consent the doctors showed towards henrietta was wrong even though a breakthrough was made because it showed an invasion of privacy, harmed her and many others and led to the downfall of her family. 



The lack of consent the doctors showed towards henrietta was wrong even though a breakthrough was made because it showed an invasion of privacy. An invasion of privacy emcompasses worlplace monitoring, internet privacy, data collection and other means of disseminating private information. The doctors who operated on henrietta invaded her privacy by collecting information on her cells without her knowing to further breakdown science for their own benefits. For example, “ ,,,- it’s  important to realize that as technology advances its becoming more intrusive in our personal lives” ( Technology is Invading Our Privacy). Technology has taken over immensely today and due to this fact , people’s have stalked,information has been taken and lives are being destroyed .



Due to the lack of consent shown by the medical team, henrietta and others suffered because of the harsh things that was done to them. Henrietta was given numerous procedures to help get her right, but all the procedures done was make her ill and worse. For example, in the book, ‘The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks”,  chapter 11, “ ...Henrietta’s  body was almost entirely taken over by tumors”.  This shows that her medical treatment was successful to say the least because she would always feel nauseated  and at one point the doctors had to “ stop all transfusions” because her blood was poisoned.  “ Since at least the 1800’s, black oral history has been filled with tales of “night doctors” who kidnapped black people for research” (Pg.165). At the time night doctors went around abducting black women and men due to alienation and inequality because of the fact that they were poor. 



After everything came to pass with with the information the doctors had stolen the lives of henrietta and her family came crashing down. For example, after henrietta’s death nobody came to realize the name of the person who cells made a breakthrough in science. Everybody had given henrietta a code name or nickname and on top of that her families medical expenses were hard due to the fact that they had no recognition of what the doctors did to henrietta.





Most people back in the day considered the information they gathered from henrietta cells to be a breakthrough. Who could blame them for what they did to henrietta without her permission though? They were looking for cutting edge science to help make vaccines and medicine to make the world a better place. Henrietta cells multiplied and reproduced unlike no other cells, and from her cells came the end to some diseases and cancers. So what the doctors did to henrietta was actually smart on their part!



Showing a lack of consent is possibly the worst thing anyone can do in this world today, Sure henrietta cells created a breakthrough in science, but at what cost? Henrietta died, her family was in turmoil and every black citizen was getting abducted for research experiments. I disagree with the  actions the doctors took in order to gain information from henrietta. If they were to ask her instead of taking samples without her permission then they would not be wrong, but in this case they are. “ The Right to Privacy”,is something that was given to us because of events like this - scamming, fraud, thieving, creeping and etc. 



In Conclusion, Privacy means everything in this world today and without it our world would be chaotic. You seen how everything ended up with henrietta and her family because of how the doctors treated her. They took samples of her body and cells without her permission for their very own necessities. All one had to do was open up and and ask, but I guess we take everyone and everything for granted today. Ask for a person’s consent before any action presents itself, because you may end up hurting that person or causing their life to make a bad turn.







