Issues In The American Education System
In American education there are many issues amongst it due to the teachers and the way that they teach with how much effort that they put into it, the school’s environment, then also the motivation that students have when it comes to their schoolwork. According to the article “U.S. students’ academic achievement still lags that of their peers in many other countries”, by Drew Desilver, he states how America has the 24th ranking out of forty countries, with Singapore ranking in first.
        Some schools in America have uncomfortable school environments that make it difficult for students to concentrate and learn well in school. According to Jonathan Kozol’s article about Fremont High School, he states how the school has no air conditioning in the summer and he also says students don’t have enough time to eat their food causing them to go the entire day without eating.(717) Students aren't getting the resources they need provided to them at school for the students who don’t have the technology to do certain work at home, making it difficult for them  to get school work done or to get help with researching something for their homework causing many students to do poorly in school and having the academic ranking in America go down. Kozol stated that students at Fremont High School only get “30 minutes of time afterschool to work in the library” to get their projects done or if “the teachers chose to bring a class to the library to work on a project.”(722)
        In America schools tend to not give students enough time to have a break and to de-stress from all the work being given to them, causing many students to feel overwhelmed with work and lose interest in school. As Timothy D. Walker stated in his article “When Finnish Teachers Work in America’s Public Schools”, he claimed schools in America have approximately 5 minutes to get from one location to the other and as soon as the bell rings you have to get straight to work. As to schools in other countries, such as, Finland where he claims that they give 15 minute breaks built into each classroom hour.
         The schools environment in where the school is located at has a lot to do with students motivation and their mindset of what they want to do, such as do good in school to get an education or to drop out and just have the knowledge of being “street smart”. As the author Gerald Graff stated in his essay “Hidden Intellectualism”, he claims he was ‘desperate for the approval of the hoods, whom I encountered daily on the playing field and in the neighbourhood.’(246) The author explains from his own experience how he the way he grew up influenced him and his views on education. In comparison to schools in other countries, such as, Finland, the environment the schools are located in all student are given the same opportunities regardless of family background, geographic location, or income, as stated by Partanen. Where as Gerald Graff claimed that students did not get to choose the classes that they wanted because they were “ghetto”.
        The motivation students put into their work when it comes to school and the interest into wanting to learn has a huge part in students doing poorly in school. As Graff claimed, he says he had no interest in reading the books teachers would have him read. “But they would be prone to take on intellectual identities if we encouraged them to do so at first on subjects that interest them rather than ones that interest us.”(245) The author explains how teachers should take on students interests and connect them with education, rather than go off of lesson plans. Also students motivation to go to school on time, and attend school everyday plays a role in getting a higher education and getting more knowledge in school. Teachers should use students non-academic interest to teach lessons in different subjects to get students attention and interested in learning, to get students to “see those interests through academic eyes.”(qtd. Graff) 
        Unlike schools in America, schools in other countries such as Finland tend to do teaching education a lot differently when it comes to education to help keep students involved and interested. In the essay “Finland’s School Success: What Americans Keep Ignoring” written by Anu Partanen, she states that “Finnish school give out less homework and engage with the children in more creative play.”(977) In comparison to teachers in America where they were not as involved with the students, as in interacting with them causing many students to lose interest in school and not try their best when it came to doing assigned work and projects for their classes. As Kozol claimed in his article that teachers were rarely there and had frequent substitutes.(721) This causing students to find interest in something else where they feel like they are going to learn more out of it, as Graff claimed that he felt that the ‘sports world’ was more compelling than school was because it was more challenging arguments, problems for analysis, and intricate statistics that was more interesting than school was.(248)
        Also the classroom size has an impact on the teacher and the students when it comes to teaching, according to the New York Times article, “How Class Size Affects Students Learning”, it claims how the more students who are added to the classroom the harder it is for the teacher to interact with the students. This situation can also have an impact on the students because the more students there are the more that students are going to want to interact with each other and the more disruptions that are going to be going on, as the article claimed. Distracting the students from their learning. As the article claims, it also has an affect on the amount of materials to use.
        In many schools where there are teachers who don’t show up for school a lot, causing students to lose out on lessons that they need to learn to do better not only on their schoolwork but, to also further their education in that subject. From this, it causes a lot of issues in the American Education. As in “Fremont High School”, Kozol has stated before that there are frequent substitutes at the school and how there was a substitute for the substitute. (721)
        American education is more focused on getting the best test scores, instead of teaching  students on what they need to learn to succeed in the next level of education. Teachers tend to give out frequent standardized test. Unlike other schools where they are more focused on “equity instead of cooperation.”, as claimed by Partanen. Meaning that schools are more focused on being fair than working together to try and improve the schools ways in learning. In other countries do not give out frequent standardized tests, they make up their own test to give to students from time to time. To give students a break of schoolwork. In place of having teachers create their own teaching lesson plans based on what students need to work on they have to go off of a lesson plan given to them from the district, as Walker claimed.  
In America there are a lot of issues within the education that need working on. As said by the different authors in the above articles talked about, a couple of the many ways education in America could change is by having more teachers interact more with the students. Also by making education more creative, by having teachers create their own lesson plans to get students more motivated about learning, and to have the environment of the school be more comfortable and suitable for students to learn in by giving them the basic tools and technology to get their work done.


Works Cited:
Bullock, R. H., and M. D. Goggin. The Norton field guide to writing, with readings. Recording for the Blind & Dyslexic, 2005.
        Graff, G., and C. Birkenstein. "They say / I say": The moves that matter in academic writing. 2017.
        Timothy D. Walker. "What Happens When Finnish Educators Teach in America's Public Schools?" The Atlantic, 6 Mar. 2018, www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/11/when-finnish-teachers-work-in-americas-public-schools/508685/.
        "U.S. Students’ Academic Achievement Still Lags That of Their Peers in Many Other Countries." Pew Research Center, 15 Feb. 2017, www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/02/15/u-s-students-internationally-math-science/.
"Opinion | How Class Size Affects Students? Learning." The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia, 10 May 2013, www.nytimes.com/2013/05/11/opinion/how-class-size-affects-students-learning.html.