College English
In High School
, we were taught many skills for English reading and writing. Such as, being able to put our 2 cents on topics and it was good enough, or how teachers told us to type essays MLA format with a minimum of 5 paragraphs, no grammar errors, and it was good enough. We were told that was all we  needed to be prepared for College writing. Once we got to College, was it really enough though? Did it meet the requirements like our High School teachers once promised us?

High School English was a piece a cake. Write about the prompt, meet the requirements, and make sure the grammar is good. Half the time, I remembered students would just look up the topic on google, and reword what they found online or just copy and paste. Then after completing the paper, they’d turn it in and call it a day, and they’d receive a good or decent grade back. Colleges said otherwise though. If you are not citing your sources or where you got your quotes, they are not credible. When were we taught that in high school?. (At least not in my High School.) “Students shall not give or receive unauthorized aid on examinations or other course work that is to be used by the instructor as the basis of grading.” (University Academic Policy Manual). If the work isn’t credible, there’s no credit for you either. In Gerard Graff and Cathy Birkenstein’s book, “They Say I Say”, they also mention how it’s plagiarism if there’s no credit given. “We are, after all, asking you to use language in your writing that isn’t your own - language that you ‘borrow’ or, to put it less delicately, steal from other writers.” Using other credible sources is great when writing essays, because it helps you backup your thesis statements and prove a point.

Although High School didn’t teach us everything we needed, they taught us the basics. I look at it like this. High school provided us with tools (the basics), where in college we take those tools to build a house (expand the knowledge till we fully comprehend). College helps us expand the knowledge we already have. Coming to college is like a slap in the face, because professors throw things at us expecting us to know these things already. The web page article, “Why Is College Writing So Much Harder Than High School?,” written by Suzy S. said the reason why College students struggle so much is because in High School we were pressured. “Unfortunately, many of them are forced to teach writing styles catering to standardized tests. Whether SAT, AP, or state required exams, you were instructed how to write an essay in under 30 minutes.” She blames it on timing, so basically saying students just rushed to get it over with. Suzy goes on to say, “If you coasted in high school writing classes, you will not succeed in college unless you make some major changes.”  For the most part, she really blames it on testing and timing and said how college gives students plenty of time to do essays with all the right requirements. Even though they gave us time for essays, students also procrastinate. It all depends on the person, because there are school’s out of state with higher scores than here in the America.

 Anu Partanen, in her article “Finland’s School Success,” [published in the Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings by Richard Bullock and Maureen Daly Goggin], mentioned how Finnish schools are the ones with the highest school performance. “... with students in Shanghai, China, taking the best scores, but the Finns are still near the very stop.” In Finland, there are private school nor tuition fees are charged. Finland also has no standardized tests like we do, but instead have a “National Matriculation Exam” that every student has to take at the end of a voluntary upper-secondary that equivalent to an American High School. Sahlbreg, director of the finnish ministry of education’s center for international mobility, points out why he feels America isn’t improving in academics is, because America sees everything as a competition. “And while Americans love to talk about competition, Sahlberg points out that nothing makes finns more uncomfortable.”  There focus is just ways to improve more, but to also keep schools healthy and safe environments for children. They end of the article with America should focus less on competition and more on equality.  “The problem facing education in America isn’t the ethnic diversity of the population but the economic inequality in society..” Maybe America needs to just stop testing students so much, because they lose interest and think to themselves “this test again?” Help them understand more instead of testing them constantly. Maybe that’s another reason why College English is harder for students in College.

In closing, College isn’t easy simple as that, but we can expand the knowledge we have. We just have to remember the right and wrongs when writing an essay. Like for example crediting someone else's work. I myself still struggle with it a lot. I came from a high school were English teachers just graded to get it over with. I came in to college thinking “what the heck is a in-text citation?” or “Am I using this quote right?” I can tell though my skills are improving, and hope to see more improvements for the rest of my college years.





Work cited 

Graff, Gerald, and Cathy Birkenstein. They Say / I Say: The Moves That Matter in Academic Writing. New York: W.W. Norton, 2014. Print.



https://takelessons.com/blog/college-writing-skills



Partanen, Anu. "Finland's School Success." Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings (2016): n. pag. Abstract. (n.d.): 976-82. Print



Kozol, Jonathan. "Fremont High School." Norton Field Guide to Writing with Readings (2016): n. pag. Abstract. (n.d.): 716-24. Print.

