Little Red Riding Hood or An Assault Weapon?



	The issue of gun control has become a major problem within America for as long as we can remember. As years go by, tragedies such as Columbine in 1999 and Newtown in 2012 were acknowledged but not acted upon. Society continues to turn a blind eye towards a problem that is slowly growing much larger the longer we choose to circumvent the issue. As such, being in such an individualistic country, the American people believe that problems that don’t concern them are thought to not be important, therefore are ignored. This raises the question to many people. You are in a country that promotes freedom: a chance to leave your old home and start anew and have the freedom to speak your own mind, however would you take the risk and live in a country where according to the Gun Violence Archive there has been “307 mass shootings from January 1, 2017 to November 5, 2017” which averages up to 7 mass shootings a week, one for every day. Once a mass shooting occurs, people come together and debate and fight for change but then it inevitably becomes a memory, this process of gun violence is a  never ending chain. The government continues to do nothing about this, however–the American people have a voice whether through its social media, public speeches and movements– and in this case it’s advertisement. 

In April 2013, the Moms Demand Action organization launches an advertising campaign called “Choose One” in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary shooting back in December of 2012.  As an official organization it effectively creates the overall feeling that this advertisement is official and should be taken seriously. As an organization the Moms Demand Action stands for the decrease of gun violence as well as strict gun control laws, as stated in their website that “Not a single federal law has been passed in decades to prevent gun violence – not after Columbine and not after Newtown” ultimately proving that this is a credible movement with trustworthy intentions. With this, the advertisement uses rhetorical strategies such as text and visuals to create an overall effective conclusion that could provoke an individual into becoming more aware of the social issues of gun violence. 

This advertisement struck social controversy throughout society as it depicts two little girls sitting down with their legs crossed. They are currently inside what seems like a school classroom with one child seen holding a Little Red Riding Hood Book and the other child holding an AR-15 assault rifle. The advertisement asks to choose the item that you believe is banned to “protect” the child, and in this instance it is implied that the book was banned before the rifle. The advertisement conveys a strong message about issuing more gun safety within society and noting the absurdity of the governments political agenda by lobbying to ban “Little Red Riding Hood...in the name of keeping kids safe, while nothing has been done about gun control” says WYSK. 

	Visually, this scene is easy to understand, as said previously–the advertisement shows two little girls sitting down. One girl is holding the fairy tale classic “Little Red Riding Hood” and the other girl is holding an AR-15 assault rifle, both girls are shown looking straight onto your eyes with a disapproving stare as if to show that we as a society have let them down. Both are sitting down in what seems like a confined classroom littered with many books stacked on top of each other in bookshelves– and to avoid confusion–the advertisement shows a glimpse of the American flag in the background to emphasize the problem is solely in America and nowhere else. Not only that but showing the American flag may be symbolism that seeing this gun violence is a regular occurrence and having allowed this advertisement showing a child with a gun is allowed as well. 

	Not only is this advertisement visually represented well but it is emotionally intriguing too. Through pathos, this situation can be connected to many school shootings that happen in schools such as Sandy Hook Elementary because by placing the children in the ad inside a school scenario, it can grasp the emotions of many families who may have witnessed the horror of school shootings or is connected to a child in anyway could be affected,  ultimately catching their attention and their need to cooperate so it wouldn’t happen again. Not only that but children are usually depicted as symbols of innocence, purity and goodness, however by adding a rifle that is connected to violence and death–this contrast in symbols creates an overall disturbing image. Seeing a child holding a gun versus a book is definitely an eye catcher, which is good in advertising standards as you can let a voice out by visually representing problems.  

The atmosphere that the advertisement gives off is an emotional and almost realistic view of the current problems in America now. By placing disturbing images of children holding guns within their advertisement campaign, it presents a striking image in light of the current gun violence issue currently happening in America, which makes it more impactful. Seeing the recent occurrences of gun violence happening in places like Parkland, Florida and Las Vegas, Nevada that happened the past year shows that this ad is still relevant even though it’s been made in 2012. This proves that nothing has been done to further prevent more shootings from happening. Not only does this provide that the issue is still ongoing, but the fact that Moms Demand Action advertised this through children and possibly applying to the issue of young people handling guns.  To many, young teens around 18 and 25 are still seen as children to many older adults and by placing a child into the ad it may not only provide the concern of children in danger of gun violence, but symbolism to show that people are obtaining a gun at such a young age—which shouldn’t be acceptable. This has become a main problem because mass shootings such as Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia, Parkland, Florida and Columbine in Littleton, Colorado all contained young shooters within the age of 18 through 25. 

	Through logos, the advertisement effectively sheds the light on the fact that gun control and gun laws are more relaxed, and ironically, a simple fairy tale book is banned because it depicted “alcohol consumption” within its cover which advertises drug use within a children's book. As shown in John L. Mitchell’s article, some school districts have banned the award winning book when officials concluded that it’s “message conflicted with the anti-drug theme” and that it promotes the message being that “alcohol will make you feel good” that this ban was in fact true. The advertisement places an object that was illegal in the United States which looks seemingly less dangerous and harmful if compared to a rifle which is still allowed and very much legal and compares the two objects, and in this case many people who witnessed gun violence would much prefer a gun to be illegal rather than a fairytale book. Throughout the bottom of the advertisement is a small explanation that says “We Keep “Little Red Riding Hood” out of schools because of the bottle of wine in her basket. Why not assault weapons?” this statement supports the visuals and provides an explanation of the reason why the item isn’t allowed versus the weapon which gives off a sense of credibility.

	Ethos could easily be shown as well, by establishing the main campaign logo in the corner. Moms Demand Action is majority lead by mothers who have concerns for their child and their future and in turn, allows for genuine credibility to be shown in the advertisement because mothers are in fact known for the role of the “child bearer.”

	Consequently, all these factors of visual aids, text and facts creates an overall emotional message that would make an individual who sees this advertisement feel remorse for allowing such a thing to still be tolerated in this country. As shown in “Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising” Jack Solomon mentions that advertisements “appeal to our subconscious emotions” and this advertisement does just this. However, it effectively creates a message of persuasion by addressing the issue of gun violence through an understandable ad. This wouldn’t be considered manipulation due to the fact that situations and scenarios within the ad do exist, it is reality. Guns still are legal and children still are killed everyday due to gun violence. 













Works Cited 

Willingham, AJ, and Saeed Ahmed. “Mass Shootings in America Are a Serious Problem -- and These 9 Charts Show Just Why.” CNN, Cable News Network, 6 Nov. 2017, 

“Choose One... Little Red Riding Hood or an Assault Weapon?” Women You Should Know®, 5 Oct. 2015, womenyoushouldknow.net/choose-one-little-red-riding-hood-assault-weapon/.



JOHN L. MITCHELL | TIMES STAFF WRITER. “Big Bad Bottle of Wine Does In Red Riding Hood Schoolbook.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 19 May 1990, articles.latimes.com/1990-05-19/local/me-82_1_red-riding-hood.



“Has 'Little Red Riding Hood' Been Banned, but Not Assault Weapons?” PolitiFact, 

Solomon, Jack. "Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising". 2 Mar. 2015.





















