84 Lumber Super Bowl Commercial- The Journey Begins

The topic about immigrants has always been an issue in America but today is a bigger  issue due to the our new President of the United States. Immigrants are seen as criminals, murders, rapist and other stuff. This is not true because not all immigrants are what people say they are, actually most of the immigrants who come to the United States are hardworking, humble and decent people. Immigrants come to America for one reason and that is to have a better future for them and their families. They will risk it all for their families and will do anything to be successful.  In today’s society immigrants are getting rejected and being called names.There’s an advertisement in which it tells and describes what an immigrant goes through when they want to crossed to America. This ad was a controversial advertisement because it was first shown in the 90- second Super Bowl ad called “84 Lumber Super Bowl Commercial- The Journey Begins” and it was produced by 84 Lumber and it was published on February 2, 2017. This advertisement brings a powerful message and that is that the United States is a land of opportunities in which 84 Lumber company also brings opportunities to everyone even if you are immigrant.

This ad “The Journey Begins” is about how this mother and daughter are crossing the desert and river to come to the United States. This mother and daughter wake up in the morning ready to go to the United States.They are packing the stuff that they need most and they say bye to their family member. They walk and walk to get into a train that has more immigrants riding on top of the train illegally. They are ready to start in their journey to get to the other side which is the United States.This ad was in the 90 minute super bowl commercials and it made controversy. This ad was brought to us by 84 Lumber which no one knew what was it and it was because it was their first time making a commercial for the super bowl. They brought this ad for us to see it because they knew more than a million people will watch the super bowl. So they wanted this video to be put in the 90 second video ad so people can know. Some say of how this ad was not an ad that should been put in a super bowl because of the content in the video.In the article “Why did a lumber company make the most emotionally gripping ad to air during Super Bowl 51? By Rodriguez, Ashley it states “But none of that came across in the ad, which in many respects was an abject failure. Ad-scoring firm Ace Metrix said the ad that aired on TV was one of the lowest-performing Super Bowl ads it has ever tested, in part because it was too serious for the Super Bowl”.(Rodriguez) This ad was “too serious” according to Rodriguez which caused a lot controversy. This company was not as popular as other company brands;therefore, the superbowl was a great opportunity for them to show this advertisement.They knew the whole world was watching the game so this ad was a great opportunity and it did. It wa a success and it made it controversial.

Also, the , which meant some people who wanted to watch the ad in its entirety could not. But as of 2:30pm eastern time today (Feb. 6), the video had more than 11 million total video views across YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter, a company spokesperson says via email, adding that there were more than 40 million web requests to Journey84.com and 84lumber.com since the 90-second spot was released on Feb. 3.

So it made controversy in just minutes because how the ad was made and how the people wanted to see what this video was about since it only lasted 90 seconds;therefore,it got a lot of views.

	Second, this advertisement brought a powerful message to other immigrants and other people who can relate and are in the same position as the mother and daughter in the video. Also, to other people who don’t know what immigrants go through. This ad brought  a powerful message because a lot of immigrants might relate to the mother and daughter who are trying to crossed to the other side that is the United States. This ad brings hope to some immigrants who are trying to crossed for a better future.This ad can be intrepid in different ways but how I see it is that it show what an immigrant will do do have a better future for their families and themselves.This can be also misinterpreted by other people who might of not get it but this ad was bought for a reason.According to the article “84 Lumber CEO Says Controversial Super Bowl Ad Was Not Pro-Immigration – and Trump's Wall 'Represents Security” by Minutaglio, Rose it states “My intent was to show, through the mother and daughter, that through struggles we will do anything we possibly can to make [the world] a better place for our children. “There were many interpretations, but the message is in the eyes of the beholder,” So clearly it states that it was not intended to be a negative message. This ad brings a powerful message because it shows how if your a hardworking person you can succeed in the United States.The little girl brings a message to us when she collects stuff as her journey coming to the U.S.

“The intention is about opportunity,” Schapiro,...“We view it as a patriotic story. If you think of liberty’s torch as a beacon of light from the land of opportunity, that’s how we viewed that light coming through the door. Exactly the same as a beacon of light, we are a company of opportunity and a land of opportunity.“It’s a very patriotic message. The flag that this young child creates, you see what that means to the mother and daughter. That’s the beacon of light we talk about.”

So this advertisement brings a powerful message to the audience because this messages relates to some of the immigrants stories.

	Third, this ad shows ethos because of the different emotions we have as we are watching this video.We get sad by watching this video because some people can relate to the mother and daughter of how they are trying to have a better life; therefore, some may relate because some live the story the ad is demonstrating. The ad brings also hope because some immigrants might think that if they are hard workers and are willing to sacrifice everything for something good that they should go to the United States. So this message can persuade more immigrants to come to the United States because of the end of the video it shows a quote. The quote states “The will to succeed will always be welcome here” (84 Lumber). This quote means how if you are ready to work hard and be successful that to come to the United States. The doors will be open for anyone who is willing to work hard and want to be successful in life; therefore, they are welcome. This message brings an emotional feeling because there is a lot of immigrants who are hardworking people who are willing to sacrifice anything to succeed in life. With this advertisement they are going to feel welcome because they know that in America they want hardworking people and the ones who truly want to succeed.  This ad brings hope to some immigrants and some other people who watch this advertisement because it brings them hope and happiness because they will do anything to be successful.In the article “84 Lumber CEO: Super Bowl ad showing Trump’s wall wasn’t intended to be political by Payne Marissa, it states “The journey of the mother and daughter was a demonstration of the human spirit — grit, determination and hard work,” she continued. This is demonstrating how if you are willing to work hard that the door will be open for you if your choice is to be successful.

	In conclusion this advertisement is trying to persuade us to believe that the United States is a land of great opportunities for everyone and also for immigrants and how 84 Lumber is also a company of opportunities for everyone. In the article “84 Lumber CEO: Super Bowl ad showing Trump’s wall wasn’t intended to be political “ states “These characteristics represent what makes 84 Lumber and our country great. We want people that embody those characteristics, no matter where you’re from. If that’s you, our door is open.” “It’s about highlighting the characteristics of a person that will go to great lengths for a new opportunity.” So it is trying to convince us to believe that 84 Lumber and the United States is a land of opportunities for everyone who is willing to succeed.















 



  Word Cited:

Rodriguez, Ashley. “Why did a lumber company make the nally gripping ad to air during Super Bowl 51?

https://qz.com/903902/84-lumbers-super-bowl-51-commercial-the-story-behind-the-most-emotionally-gripping-ad-of-the-night/

 

 

Minutaglio, Rose.” 84 Lumber CEO Says Controversial Super Bowl Ad Was Not Pro-Immigration – and Trump's Wall 'Represents Security”

http://people.com/human-interest/84-lumber-ceo-says-controversial-super-bowl-ad-was-not-pro-immigration-and-trumps-wall-represents-security/

 

Payne, Marissa. “84 Lumber CEO: Super Bowl ad showing Trump’s wall wasn’t intended to be political”

 https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/early-lead/wp/2017/02/04/company-re-tools-rejected-super-bowl-ad-but-you-can-still-see-the-original/?utm_term=.c28d33bef643

 

 



