Effects of Domestic Violence 



In a year, there are reported to be two million injuries and 1,300 deaths as a result of domestic violence. In Maryland, fifty-five individuals died between July 2015 and June 2016 due to domestic violence. In thirty-two of the fatalities guns were involved. Thirty-four of the individuals were victims who were killed by intimate partners: twenty-six women, one 17-year-old girl, and seven men. Two of the deaths occurred in same-sex relationships. The primary effects of domestic violence are eating disorders, insomnia, or post-traumatic stress disorder.



One effect of violence, whether to the victim or a witness is the development of an eating disorder. Experiencing traumatic situations can lead to a complete change in someone’s life. His or her sole purpose in life could be altered. Their focal points on life can be disoriented and the desire to eat could decrease or disappear. How a person gets through being in a domestic relationship plays a key role in how healthy a person remains after their situation. Some may veer off track and not see the importance in eating or lose their appetite.



Another effect of domestic violence is insomnia. Insomnia is the inability to sleep. As a result of insomnia, people may experience sleepiness, fatigue, and cognitive impairment. Sleepiness is simply the state of being sleepy. However, fatigue is more severe because it relates to extreme tiredness, resulting from mental or physical exertion or illness. Cognitive impairment is an intermediate stage between the expected cognitive decline of normal aging and the more-serious decline of dementia. Dementia is however, a chronic disorder of the mental processes caused by brain diseases or injury. Going through domestic violence affects people’s mental process abilities directly.



The most severe effect of domestic violence is developing post-traumatic stress disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder is a mental health condition that is triggered by experiencing or witnessing a terrifying event. Symptoms of PTSD include severe anxiety, nightmares, and uncontrollable thoughts. When someone has anxiety, he or she may experience feelings of worry, nervousness, or unease. Anxiety is usually encouraged by uncertainty. Nightmares are your conscious negative or scary thoughts in a relaxed state of sleep. Not having the ability to control your thoughts can be mind-bothering to the point of losing one’s sanity.



Some straight forward effects of domestic violence are psychosomatic illness, insomnia, or post-traumatic stress disorder. Domestic violence alters one’s cognitive, physical, and emotional abilities. It should not be tolerated in any form no one should go through that experience but it still happens. 




Cite Page 



N.A. “MNADV Releases 2015-2016 DV Fatality Statistics” mnadv.org. Maryland Network Against 



Domestic Violence, February 10, 2017. Web. 3 November 2017



N.A. “Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)” mayoclinic.org. Mayo Clinic October 25,2017. web 



3 November 2017



Dr. J “Results of Insomnia – A Lack of Sleep Can Cause” wholepersonhealth.com. Whole Person 



Health Wellness Center, June 5,2011. Web 3 November 2