The Escape From Poverty



	In the story “The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks” by Skloot and the movie “Mudbound” they both have a story with families that face poverty. Poverty was a big deal in “Mudbound” and not as much in “The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks”.  Poverty is a big problem in the United States even though they try to help people in poverty with benefits. I believe that people born into poverty can escape it because they can work hard, use the benefits that are provided, and they can save money over time.

	I believe that born in poverty can escape it by working hard. I think so because hard working people almost always get rewarded or promoted in jobs. This would lead to a promotion which means more money for the person trying to escape poverty. In “The Immortal Life Of Henrietta Lacks” by Skloot she says “Like most young Lackses, Day didn't finish school: he stopped in the fourth grade because the family needed him to work the fields. But Henrietta stayed until the sixth grade. During the school year, after taking care of the garden and livestock every morning, she'd walk two miles—past the white school where children threw rocks and taunted her—to the colored school, a three-room wooden farmhouse hidden under tall shade trees […].(20).” This is another example on how working hard can help people escape poverty because Day had to skip out on school so that he could be successful. Escaping poverty can be fairly simple in my opinion.

	Another way I believe a person born into poverty can escape it is by using the benefits that are given by the Government. The United States gives out different benefits to people in poverty, these benefits include medicare, social security, unemployment insurance, and food stamps. The Government has all of these benefits which help with and support the people in poverty. In an article on the New York Times website called “Escaping From Poverty” by Nicholas Kristof he talks about how the Perry Preschool program helped children in poverty in the 1960’s. In the program they made a control group of children that were in the program and they kept up with them until they were adults, in the end the children that were in the program had been more successful than the children who were not.

	I also believe that another good way for a person born in poverty to escape is to save money over time. If a person works almost everyday and saves half of their checks they could be putting themselves in a position to escape poverty at a quicker rate. If they do this for over year depending on how much money they make they could be better off than if they just worked to ends meet. If a person was trying the escape poverty were to combine saving money with using the governments benefits could be very useful for escaping.

	A person could also say that a person that is born into poverty cannot escape it. They would say this because they think that the benefits that are given to the people in poverty are not enough to be helpful. Also say that hard work will not lead up the person escaping poverty. Someone that says that a person cannot escape poverty that a person was born in to would have show records from real people in the situation which would make people se their side. They would also say that saving money would literally do nothing because of how little someone in poverty gets paid.

	On the other hand a person cannot escape poverty if they are born into it. The National Center for Children in Poverty (NCCP) did a study that shows that the odds of a person born into poverty and escaping it is very low. In the study it says “For example, one study of families across generations finds that one’s economic position is strongly influenced by that of one’s parents: 42 percent of children born to parents in the bottom fifth of the economic distribution remain in the bottom as adults…” This shows that starting off in poverty can mean that you will stay in poverty. Finding a decent paying job can also be a struggle for a person in poverty which is another cause for the person not being able to make it out. A person cannot make it out of poverty that they were born into because of how many odds are stacked against them.

	In conclusion using there are plenty of ways to escape poverty even if you are born into it. You can work hard, use the benefits that are provided, and save money over time. Using all three of these at the same time can be a major way to escape poverty and succeed in the future. If a person can escape poverty they can do almost about everything.

	