Animals are in Everything 
Being completely vegan is really hard when animal byproducts are in everything we use. Vegan is defined as not using or consuming animal products. In an article written by Alina Pertre on HealthLine a website that posts about different ways to be healthy and common medical information, she explained what being vegan is and where it started. “These people chose not to consume dairy, eggs or any other products of animal origin, in addition to not eating meat like the vegetarians. Therefore, they felt the need to form a society that better represented their views. The term vegan was chosen by combining the first and last letters of the word vegetarian. Veganism was originally defined as "the principle of emancipation of animals from exploitation by man"”(What Is a Vegan and What Do Vegans Eat?). Personally I don't mind if people are vegan it is there life choice not to enjoy the delicious taste of meat like crispy bacon. The part about most vegans that bugs me is that they think they are better than other people because they “save animals” or they are “healthier” than you. But is it possible to be a vegan? Well what most vegans don't know is you can't be 100% vegan because there is animal byproducts in daily items we use. 
A lot of people think that animals are used just for or in food but we don't want the rest to go to waist so they use every part of the animal for different things. On the treehugger website that posts a lot about “green news” they post about different ways to stay green and how to use an item for not only what it's meant for but other way to use it. “Even when food can have hidden animal ingredients, you can still take the time to look at the label to see it. With your car or bike tires, it's a little more difficult. But here's the trick: check with the manufacturer if they use animal-based stearic acid, which helps the rubber in tires hold shape under steady surface friction” (9 everyday products you didn't know had animal ingredients). In this article they talk about bike and car tires something almost everyone has used in there lifetime. Even if someone takes the time to look up the company and do some background research of the company it takes a lot of time and effort to try to be completely vegan. 
Cattle byproducts are just one example of the use of byproducts and the most common. “There are various by-products that come from all types of cattle. Tallow is fat from cattle, and it is used in wax paper, crayons, margarine, paints, rubber, lubricants, candles, soaps, lipsticks, shaving creams and other cosmetics. Gelatin is a protein obtained by boiling skin, tendons, ligaments, and/or bones of cattle in water. Gelatin is used in shampoos, face masks and other cosmetics. Gelatin is also used in foods as a thickener for fruit gelatins and puddings (like Jell-O), candies and marshmallows” (Products from animals). This article tells us how many different ways cattle byproducts are used not just for meat. However, it makes it hard for people to stay away from animal products. The easiest product to tell if there is animal products in it is food because of the food labels. But when it gets to makeup, wax paper, crayons, and cosmetics it's a little more difficult to stay away from. Maybe if people knew that the rest of the animal is used for so many more resources they would have less of a problem eating the meat. I see the use of animal byproducts kinda like an organ donor once the person or animal has died then the use of the body can be used for much more. 
In another article from AnimalSmart.org it talks about the most consumed meat product pork. The swine once harvested is used for a lot of medical uses like valves for human heart surgery and insulin for diabetics, and the more common use is suede. “Pork is the most widely consumed meat in the world. People eat many different pork products, such as bacon, sausage and pork chops. You might grill pork ribs in the summer, or you might enjoy a Christmas ham. A 250 pound market hog yields about 150 pounds of pork. In addition to pork, several valuable products come from swine. These include insulin for the regulation of diabetes, valves for human heart surgery, suede for shoes and clothing, and gelatin for foods and non-food uses. Swine by-products are also important parts of products such as water filters, insulation, rubber, antifreeze, certain plastics, floor waxes, crayons, chalk, adhesives and fertilizer (USDA, 2016). Lard is fat from pig abdomens  and is used in shaving creams, soaps, make-up, baked goods and other foods”(Products from animals). A lot like cattle byproducts pigs are used for common items but maybe it's a little more important because of the wide uses in the medical field. I find it really interesting that pig byproducts can be used for helping repair humans and down to crayons it's such a wide variety of uses. 
Now if you are vegan and have stayed away from everything i've shared so far then good for you, but most everyone has a favorite sport. You go to games and cheer on your team but if you are vegan or thinking of becoming vegan then you may want to know that in baseballs, and footballs and more are made out of animal byproducts. “Baseballs have changed very little throughout history but remain controversial, as some people believe they are enhanced to improve professional performance. The basic baseball, however, consists of a pill (i.e. cork or rubber center) wrapped with cotton or wool yarn that is stitched together with a cowhide cover. And there's a reason why the football is often referred to as a pigskin. The earliest footballs, predating to the 1500s, looked more like modern soccer balls and were made of pig bladders covered with leather. Modern footballs have a rubber bladder which is covered with grain-textured leather panels that are sewn together with laces”(How Sports Balls Are Made). In this sports article tells us how the two most common sports balls contain animal byproducts. The hide that covers the outside and the wool that is wound up in baseballs. So my point is if you are 100% vegan then you won't be the one going to games and cheering on your favorite team because they use animal byproducts in the game. 
It's hard to steer clear from animal byproducts. It's been shown throughout my essay how many different ways animal byproducts are used. And the most important thing is that no one can be 100% vegan if they use any of these products. So if your vegan I would ask if you get off your high horse and rethink everything you use and see if you are truly 100% vegan. 










Work Cited
Pertre, Alina, July 29, 2016 (What Is a Vegan and What Do Vegans Eat?) https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/what-is-a-vegan
Alvarado,Paula, December 5, 2016 (9 everyday products you didn't know had animal ingredients) https://www.treehugger.com/green-food/9-everyday-products-you-didnt-know-had-animal-ingredients.html
Kids Zone, (Products from animals) http://animalsmart.org/feeding-the-world/products-from-animals 
Matt, April 15, 2015 (How Sports Balls Are Made) http://www.wolverinesports.com/blog/balls/how-sports-balls-are-made/