Down with SeaWorld
	
I remember when I was a little boy, my parents took me to the extravagant water amusement park, SeaWorld. From the aquatic animals, to the rides, to the food, I loved everything about SeaWorld. It wasn’t until I got older and went again when I saw people protesting the amusement park. I was confused on why people were protesting, younger me saw nothing wrong about the park. My question growing up was always why. It wasn’t until recently when I decided to do some research to see just how many people hated SeaWorld. In fact, according to the online article SeaWorld Voted One Of The Most Hated Companies In America  the author Stephen Messenger, said,“in a recent poll conducted each year by consumerist, SeaWorld was voted among the most hated companies in America.” (thedodo.com) From this, you can see that it was voted as one of the worst companies in America, meaning many people are probably against this amusement park. Seaworld is seen as one of the most hated companies in America because they don’t care about the animals needs as well as the amount of harm that can be brought to them by being in captivity.

Despite all the hate of SeaWorld, it still is a pretty popular amusement park, being that it’s a lot cheaper compared to other amusement parks such as Disneyland or Six Flags. In addition to rides, Seaworld also has its aquatic exhibits featuring many marine life from fish to killer whales. If you want to enjoy rides as well as see some animals held in captivity, then SeaWorld can be seen as probably the better choice because you can do both while saving a buck. However, going to SeaWorld may have you experiencing some backlash from the people who against the theme park. People who are against SeaWorld may see it as you willinging giving money to a foundation that captures marine life for the entertainment of human as well destroying the animal’s family, which inevitably can be true. According to the website People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals,Peta states, “SeaWorld tears families apart. In the wild, dolphins spend their entire lives in a pod with their mothers and sisters. Capturing even one dolphin disrupts the entire pod. Dolphins born in captivity are often taken away from their loved ones and shipped to other facilities.”(Peta.org) This brings me to my first reason on why SeaWorld can be seen as cruel as well as not caring about the animals.. As you can see, capturing animals from their wildlife habitats plays a huge role on disturbing the animals tranquility. Sure you might think “they’re just animals” but their lives matters too. You wouldn’t like it if someone took your pet from your home and shipped it all the way across the country to never be seen again. We should have this same mentality when it comes to the dolphins being shipped to seaworld. However, some people may have the mentality that taking the sea animals into captivity is a way to prevent harm from the animals in the wild life, but this is definitely not the case all the time.

	When the marine animals are taken into captivity and transported to aquatic exhibits such as SeaWorld, what many people don’t realise is the abuse they experience. First of all, it’s no secret that a twelve thousand pound orca does not belong in a holding tank in an exhibit. It’s obvious that marine life animals belong to be in the far and wide ocean swimming miles and miles not in a small tank. According to Peta, they say “Life in a bathtub drains marines mammal’s spirits. Forcing animals who naturally travel up to 100 miles a day in the open ocean to swim in continuous circles in tiny, barren concrete tanks causes stress-related behaviors, including suicides.” (Peta.org) This just proves the fact that being in a small holding tank only brings mental harm to the animals in the sense that they get stress which could lead to suicides. SeaWorld has many animals that are kept in way too small holding areas which can have extremely harmful effects not only mentally but physically.  Since these animals experience mental illness, it can lead to them to exhibit behaviors not typical of their nature. For instance, there was a case of an Orca named Tilikum. This killer whale weighed about twelve thousand pounds, and measured over twenty-two feet and was kept in a small holding tank. The stress of the small tank ended up leading Tilikum to drown one of his trainers who trained him for many years. Tilikum’s unusual actions are supported by the website, “SeaWorld of Hurt”, when they say “Aggression toward humans and among orcas is nearly non-existent in nature, but the constant stress of living in incompatible social groupings inside minuscule tanks at seaworld causes them to lash out, posing a danger both to other whales and to employees alike.” (SeaWorld of Hurt.com) This just shows that SeaWorld’s small holding tanks have a negative impact on the animal’s mind and behaviors. Clearly if they weren’t in captivity, these types of unfortunate events would not occur. Additionally, these small holding cells can lead to death. In fact, Peta states, “twenty-four dead orcas - and counting. Of the twenty-four orcase who have died at seaworld since 1986, not one died of old age. Many of their deaths were caused by captivity-induced illness.” (Peta.org)  These key pieces of information are probably prime reasons many people don’t support SeaWorld. The small holding tanks alone can lead to stress which makes the animals act out of their normal behavior, which can lead to aggressive behavior to humans as well as other animals.

	Seaworld is a popular amusement park in the sense of having attractions, aquatic animals, and being on the cheaper side. However, despite all of that, Seaworld is still hated by many people because of how cruel By cruel, I mean in the sense of separating aquatic animals from their families such as what they did to the dolphins and killer whales they have at their parks. Additionally, the small tanks that seaworld keeps their animals in can bring negative amounts of stress on them, which can lead to unusual and dangerous behavior not typically seen in the wild. It’s also no surprise how many of these animals end up dying simply because of the poor living conditions they experience from the captivity. The amount of killer whales that die in the park, or even employee deaths can all be prevented if SeaWorld took more effort in making the living quarters for the animals better. However, until that happens, these are all just a few of the reasons why SeaWorld is considered one of the most hated companies in America in the sense that they don’t care about the animals.





















Works cited

“One Year After Tilikum's Death, PETA Urges SeaWorld to Ban Breeding and Send Animals to Sanctuaries.” SeaWorld of Hurt, .



Messenger, Stephen. “SeaWorld Voted One Of The Most Hated Companies In America.” The Dodo, The Dodo, 27 June 2014, .



“Top Five Reasons to Protest SeaWorld.” PETA, 14 Oct. 2013, .



