What Love is Not 

	“1 in 7 women and 1 in 18 men have been stalked by an intimate partner during their lifetime to the point in which they felt very fearful or believed that they or someone close to them would be harmed or killed”. Many partners feel the need to be in control of the other partner without knowing that this is domestic violence. In a chapter titled “How to Identify Love by knowing what it is not” of Augusten Burroughs “This is How” book, Burroughs describes how abuse is a spectrum, ranging from physical abuse to controlling abuse. Abuse is not only physical, but also emotional, or a controllable partner.

	Abuse can be physical. In many relationships, a partner may let their anger get the best of them and use violence. Burroughs identifies what love is by stating that “Love doesn’t use a fist”. Physical violence is a sign of abuse not love. Physical abuse is so common that “you can receive so many black eyes, you forget it’s abnormal to have even one”. Physical abuse is the most known abuse in domestic violence. When you think of domestic violence, “you think of a character and a weak victim: macho, powerful bully and a passive, frail women. It is a cliché that society depict domestic violence. A checklist made by the National Domestic Violence Hotline states that if your partner “shove you, slap you, choke you, or hit you”, that a call should be placed to the hotline.

	Abuse is not only physical but can range to emotional. Emotional abuse can be when a partner makes you feel down about yourself. Burroughs defines emotional abuse as “the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one’s purpose”. This puts abuse on a wider spectrum, not limiting abuse to physical. Burroughs also identifies love by stating “love does not maintain a list of your flaws and weaknesses”. Insulting and verbally abusing your partner is domestic violence. Emotionally abuse, however, is not limited to verbal abuse. Burroughs states that “silence when there should be discussion to resolve an issue is another method of abuse if the silence is used as a tool to frustrate or sadden or otherwise intentionally manipulate the emotions of another”. It can also seem like that your partner is loving and supportive but “their covert abuse is administered in small, cunning ways”. Therefore, it takes a build up of this type of abuse to notice that it is even there.

	Domestic violence is not limited to physical and emotional abuse but can range to a partner who feels the need to be in control. Some partners feel as though they need to be in control and make all the decisions because they are the superior. Burroughs states that “an abusive partner is controlling” and that “they might supply reasonable arguments as to why they should make important decisions”. Though the partner’s reasoning may seem logical, their desire to be in control may be describes as abuse. Another statement in the checklist by the National Domestic violence hotline says that you are in an abusive relationship if your partner “makes all the decisions”. As this might seem to be a little thing, it is a form of abuse. There are many occasions where a partner may feel that they should be in control, maybe because they feel superior or maybe because they were raised to think that. Either way, The National Domestic Violence Hotline states that you may be in an abusive relationship if your partner “control what you do, who you see or talk to, or where you go. Burroughs finally states that abuse is “ a spectrum you might describe your partner as just a little controlling, not realizing that this is abuse.

	Abuse may range from physical and emotional, to a controllable partner. Domestic violence does not always have to be a partner hitting you or calling you names. Abuse can also be a partner who subtly embarrasses you or a partner who makes all the decisions. I recommend that if someone is physically, emotionally, or is being controlled by a partner, that they should get professional help immediately or call the National Domestic Violence Hotline.