Tears Of Abortion	

Is it right to terminate a pregnancy? Abortion is the termination of a pregnancy most often performed during the first 28 weeks of pregnancy.  There are many other determinations held on the issue of abortion. For those having a moderate view on abortion, abortion is never acceptable except when necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman. In comparison, the liberal view understands that abortion is always politically acceptable at any time of fetal development, and for any reason. Finally, there are those in the middle, that they believe that abortion is politically acceptable up to a certain point of fetal development and that some reasons are acceptable. The question mostly brought up is “ What if the women was raped?”, this question can cause you to think about it twice. Why kill an innocent  “human” for someone else's wrong. A woman has every right to choose what to do with her body whether she will save the fetus or terminate the fetation, because of the solid reasons. Abortion is also one of the most controversial issues in the United States. Abortion is now legal in the United States now but back in the centuries abortion was illegal. It was a crime to abort. I believe abortion is not okay but if one believes abortion is okay then you believe that the human is not fetus therefore abortion is not killing a human being. If you do believe abortion is okay then you believe the act of abortion is killing a human being.

This ad commercial is persuading you to not have an abortion even at one month of pregnancy the fetus is considered a human being. “ I am ¾ of an inch long. I have all my organs and my heart started beating today. I am alive!”, shows how having an abortion is like killing a human being. It gives you more in depth information on how life of a human being begins at conception . Then a couple months into pregnancy you decide to abort and your killing a “ human being”.

The pathos of this advertisement is how the videos background music and the baby's voice makes you get emotional due to the fact that it saying how women have an abortion knowing that the fetus is considered a human being. Your killing a human being due to the fact it's still alive and with a heart beating inside of you. At the end of the video it shows the outcomes of abortion, because of abortion “I will never hug you, kiss you, hold your hand, my lips will never kiss you on the check, and my mouth will never whisper “ I love you”. All because you decided to abort.

The reason for this video is to show you how abortion works and what happens during the trimesters of a pregnancy before you decide to abort. It’s also public for everyone to see it so abortion can stop happening. It starts of with one month and shows how the baby is well developed till you decide to abort it. This video makes you as a women think if you want to abort or not. For example, after watching this video I thought to myself if I was ever put in a situation like this I will not abort a human being nor will I if my reason was acceptable. It gives you a better knowledge on if you abort it's like killing a human being.

This advertisement states “ Love should never be thrown away”. Aborting a baby is killing a baby. You and the baby will never share a strong love as a parent and child. As some people believe abortion is not killing a baby at contraception. You should think twice about this situation.

The topic of abortion has been one of the most prominent controversies in the United States. A human’s life is special in all stages and should not be taken away for any reason. The robing of someone’s life at any point is morally wrong and is a crime according to religion and the law regarding murder. If one cannot assume the responsibilities of taking care of a human until they are able to survive on their own, then intercourse is not recommended. If they want to have intercourse there are many ways to prevent yourself from getting pregnant such as going to clinics (plan parenthood), using protection or not having intercourse when they know the consequences. In the article “How you can prevent a future unwanted pregnancy” by Marc Worrell shows the rates of effectiveness6 of different types of contraceptives. Some ways to prevent yourself from getting pregnant are the male condom (85%), Depo provera (99%), IUD (99%), and many more… There are ways to prevent yourself from getting pregnant rather than just aborting a human being because of your wrongs. Also, due to religions some religions have there own beliefs. Some believe it's wrong to have an abortion.   Christianity believes "You shall not kill the child in the womb or murder a newborn infant”(Spuc.org).  The Catholic Church opposes abortion because it believes that life is sacred and inviolable. Many atheists and agnostics view abortion as a violation of human rights and hold pro-life opinions for this reason.  

Going back to the centuries abortion was not acceptable. As states in the article called “ Abortion in early America” by Acevedo Z states “From 1776 until the mid-1800s abortion was viewed as socially unacceptable; however, abortions were not illegal in most states. During the 1860s a number of states passed anti-abortion laws. Most of these laws were ambiguous and difficult to enforce. After 1860 stronger anti-abortion laws were passed and these laws were more vigorously enforced. As a result, many women began to utilize illegal underground abortion services. Although abortion was legalized in 1970, many women are still forced to obtain illegal abortion or to perform self-abortions due to the economic constraints imposed by the Hyde Amendment and the unavailability of services in many areas”. Abortion now is legal in the United States but in some states it's illegal to abort. As the video tries to tell you to not abort and shows you how the life of a baby begins at one month due to pregnancy.   

 In conclusion, abortion is an issue that is very controversial all around the United States. The advertisement is persuading you to not have an abortion even at one month of pregnancy since the fetus is considered a human being. It goes into detail month by month on how the life starts at conception then you decide to kill a human being. As you can tell, many people have different beliefs and views on abortion. If one believes that life does not start at conception then they most likely believe that abortion is okay and that it is not wrong. If one does believe that life starts at conception then they probably believe that abortion is wrong. Those who believe abortion is wrong believe that abortion is killing a human being. After doing more research on abortion there should be more clinics or help for women to protect themselves from getting pregnant.











Work Cited

N.a. "Tears Of Abortion - Story of an aborted baby, This Pro Life Video will make you cry your eyes out. - YouTube." Youtube.com, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kAk0Ag-tfxE. Accessed 11 Mar. 2018.

Solomon, Jack “Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising”, 2 Mar. 2015

Marc Worrell. "How can you prevent a future unwanted pregnancy? — Women on Web." Womenonweb.org, 

https://www.womenonweb.org/en/page/495/how-can-you-prevent-a-future-unwanted-pregnancy. Accessed 11 Mar. 2018.

N.a. "Religious Views." Spuc.org.uk, https://www.spuc.org.uk/abortion/religion. Accessed 11 Mar. 2018.

Acevedo Z. "Abortion in early America. - PubMed - NCBI." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10297561. Accessed 12 Mar. 2018.



