
“Neat People vs. Sloppy People”

In the short essay “Neat People vs. Sloppy People” by Suzanne Britt she belittles neat people because they lack morals, values, and they are apathetic; whereas she justifies sloppy people because they are generally care free, open-minded, and artistic. 

Britt believed that neat people were lazier and meaner than sloppy people because neat people do not take the time to appreciate the little things that don’t necessarily matter. Neat people tend not to show any attention to anything that isn’t beneficial. However, the neglectful characteristic they hold helps keep them in a daily routine. “Everything is just another dust-catcher to them. If anything collects dust, it’s got to go and that’s that.” This is a phrase from Britt’s story to explain how neat people carry a certain attitude about material things whether if it is just a possession or an asset. On the other hand sloppy people are care free not because they simply just don’t care, sloppy people have a unique mindset of reality! They do not see the importance to put everything in order physically, but more so have everything in order mentally.

Neat people values are very concise! If it does not benefit them in any possible way, it’s considered completely worthless, whereas on the behalf of the sloppy people this is just another opportunity to expand their mindset, creating new strategies or innovating an invention. “Sloppy people, you see, are not really sloppy. Their sloppiness is merely the unfortunate consequence of their extreme moral rectitude. Sloppy people carry in their mind’s eye a heavenly vision, a precise plan that is so stupendous, so perfect, it can’t be achieved in this world or the next.” In the text the author is trying to explain how sloppy people aren’t sloppy. Their actions just show an outrageous way of thinking outside the normal thought process. Sloppy people do prioritize, they just happen to do it in a more unorganized way. Neat people aren’t really expanding their mindset with just sticking to the basics every day.  “Neat people place neatness above everything, even economics. They are incredibly wasteful. Neat people throw away several toys every time they walk through a den. I knew neat person once who threw away a perfectly good dish drainer because it had mold on it. The drainer was too much trouble to wash.” This is an example of how neat people’s value depend on if something benefits them or not.

Those who are neat are very apathetic! They tend to show more of an “I don’t care” attitude than a sloppy person who is considered lazy. Usually the cleaner the better but in this case .

 