                                                   When Will It Stop?





           Love is like a roller coaster. When some people first step on the ride they get excited, anxious, and can’t wait to see what will happen next. During the ride they experience a lot of twist and turns. Just like a roller coaster, no relationship is the same or perfect you go through twist and turns like the ride but, what happens if while your on that ride it gets stuck? Do you realize the ride is dangerous and can’t wait to get off or are you fine with taking the risks? Most people in abusive relationships are stuck on a never ending dangerous roller coaster and some of them don’t even know it. Augusten Burroughs, author of How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not wrote about the dangers of an abusive relationship, how to spot warning signs of abuse, and the toll it can take on the relationship. Abuse within a relationship can be placed on a spectrum that can include belittling their looks or feelings, psychical harm towards them and/or another loved one, and manipulation to stay together. 

           In “How to Identify Love by Knowing What It’s Not” Burroughs explains emotional abuse as “the process of breaking the spirit or shattering the confidence of another for one's own purpose”(pg.470). By one significant other belittling the others looks or feelings it leaves a long lasting effect on the relationship in two ways. The victim would feel very insecure about their looks and keep their feelings bottled up leaving them ready to explode at any moment. They might even become depressed or emotionally dissatisfied. While the abuser on the other hand will feel dominant. They will feel that by crushing their lovers self esteem it will leave them vulnerable and make them stay in the relationship. 

               Physical abuse is just as harmful as emotional abuse and sometimes it can even be worse. Anything that could potentially harm you or cause you any trauma that is done on purpose is considered physical abuse. Burroughs states “The difference between physical violence like a slap in the face or a shove and a homicide can be a few centimeters or the angle of approach” (pg.472). Meaning once they start hitting you they will not stop. It will be continued behavior throughout the course of the relationship and it can escalate to them not only physically harming their partner but another loved one too. If the couple has a child together the abuser could possibly start abusing the child or children as well. 

                Imagine someone trying to get out of an abusive relationship and while they are trying to leave, the abuser does everything to get them to stay. That is manipulation. Abusers are never truly sorry, they will continue to behave in that way for as long as you stay with them. As soon as the significant other gains the courage to leave the abuser starts to make a lot of empty promises that include saying they will change change their behavior. As soon as the partner agrees to stay they change for a minute but begin to act the same way as before. 

                 Sometimes people need to learn that even though roller coasters are fun they aren’t always safe. Just like at the beginning of a relationship everything might seem great but you still need to look out for the read flags. Once the abusive behavior starts it only gets worse from that point on and no one ever wants to be stuck on a roller coaster.  

            

           

