
     Old habits are hard to get rid of.  Especially if those habits got one through school.   Coming out of high school, a student can feel as though they are somewhat prepared for what college has in store for them.  They learned what essays should look like and how to use certain literary tools.  However, the writing in college (i.e. essays) is noticeably different from high school.  In high school,  writing is structured and one dimensional, whereas college writing is more in depth and diverse.
     High school academia left nothing to the imagination.  Many essays done in high school were only for a grade and generic enough so teachers can have an easier time grading according to  Milka Mustenikova Mosley, an English teacher and writer.  Looking at Mosley’s essay, The Truth About High School English ,  they stated that high school writing was “formalic”.  Mosley continues to make observations on how high school teachers assign their work for the students to do that isn’t too complicated.  Students also follow the requirements in order to pass.  Mosley goes on to mention how the curriculum limits the student’s opportunity to learn to be more detailed in their works due to the focus on standardized testing such as the PSATs or SAT.  The essay also points out how students become more eager/serious to learn how an essay is supposed to look in college.  
     College , of course, has higher expectations of students and their academic abilities.  Rather than just writing an essay about a theme in Hamlet or a certain author being covered at that time, high school students should be given opportunities to practice to prepare for other things such as “lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, ...” (Mosley).  Even with their essays, students are usually given topics that don’t spark any motivation.  Essays are similar to one another because teachers walk through them like how Mosley did to her students.  That being the case, the chance of these students actually taking interest to the topics given to them is very rare.   
     High school writing is also “predictable” (Mosley) to the point that it is longer fun. That is another difference between high school writing and college writing.  High school writing can be bland and contain no strong analysis due to the format installed in students.  Gerald Graff , co-author of They Say / I Say and  a professor at the University of Illinois in Chicago, wrote about “intelligence” and “street smarts” and how they are actually one and the same.  Graff basically went on and used an example of his own childhood how he used his “street smarts” or interest in different topics such as baseball allowed him to go in depth with his standing on the topic.  He continued with saying that intellectuals can be made when having “seemingly philistine debates about which boys were the toughest.”  Little mundane things such as debating which band is the best or what movie had the most memorable moments prepare people for what accademia will ask of them.  Graff noticed himself that he “was unwittingly training for it [intellectual thinking].”  Having a topic that generates enthusiasm  ensures a piece full of  compelling evidence or facts to support one’s claims.  Graff also includes that “the thirst for community” is what encourages us to bring facts and/or opinions to the conversation.  Look at the current events in America.  People are very opinionated about government authorities and what they stand for.  The people do their research in order to be prepared to give their views on the topics.  Football season is also a good example of practicing elements of writing to express one’s views.  A football fan can share their reasoning to why their favorite team is the best or why another team doesn’t stand a chance.  Graff included Professor  Ned Laff’s  statement about allowing “students’ nonacademic  interests” to be used “to see them through academic eyes.”  Laff’s statement shows that students’ interests aren’t a waste of time and that teachers should take advantage of their passion for certain topics to help build their writing abilities.  
     Entering college, I assumed that the papers would also have a kind of structure that will make the papers go by fast.  I believed that a thesis was only good if it helped you structure your body paragraphs.  However, with what was taught in the lectures and  They Say/ I Say that view has altered.  Recently in my English class, I’ve learned about identifying a conversation with the input of different authors.  In the other essay I wrote called The Conversation About The Education System In America , the conversation there was about how the American education system was subpar compared to other countries and Finland being a prime example.  That essay is the “they say” in which the book They Say/ I Say  mentions.  I used the words and key components that each author mentioned in their works to help identify the conversation.  Being able to analyze the text in order to have a better understanding why each essay or report was made allows me to absorb it better than I probably would have if I just read them passively.  Understanding that conversation by piecing together each author’s findings is what “they say” is all about.  Going back to the experiences of high school writing compared to now, I would say that high school wasn’t as liberating as college is.  In college, the writer can go in depth in their essays and follow the prompt assigned.  College students , from my experience thus far, are challenged with their writing in which high schoolers are not.  Writers are now challenged to develop their own ideas from their own past information on the topic and to understand that the meaning of the context being discussed comes from them.  That is how high schoolers should be taught; that their work shouldn’t be just done for the sake of completion, but for the sake of understanding.  














Works Cited
Graff, Gerald, and Cathy Birkenstein. "Hidden Intellectualism." They Say/I Say, 3rd ed., W.W.      
     Norton & Company, 2014, pp. 244-251.

Mosley, Milka M. "The Truth About High School English." pp. 58-68,        blackboard.learn.fresnostate.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-2096015-dt-content-rid-17794103_1/courses/ENGL5A-26-33230-2183/Mosley%20-%20Truth%20About%20H.S.%20Writing.pdf. Accessed   Jan. 2018.