The Importance of Voting 

	A system that allows citizens to determine their future in the country and within their nation is a strategic organization that will help solidify the people’s voice, ideas, and freedom. Voting has come from a long line generation starting in the late 1700’s, initially with only white males ages of twenty-one and above, whom own lands, had the right to vote (SOS). According to Secretary of State, Till 1971, voting has significantly progressed it’s right and legislate the opportunity for ages eighteen and older to have the ability to vote. What people do not understand is that voting has an impact on to our society whether they vote yes or no, who or whom else. Grasping to the idea of voting is not something all people consider to do. For sake, I don’t even vote because I say I am “too busy”. Why don’t people vote? People think that voting does not have an effective impact on the society whether they vote or not. However, voting is an important right that is privileged in allowing your voice to be heard and identify all mean of issues that needs to be resolved. It is the people’s responsibility to vote to make sure that schools to health care to homeland securities is a safe environment for loved ones and the future (Google). 

	Voting has an effect on different age groups and different ethnicities. The total population of people taking the advantage to vote for something worthy has significantly decreased from the group of “ages” when voting embarked on society. However, did you know that the least age group to vote is ages from 18-20? The age group of eighteen and twenty is where they begin the excitement of experiencing becoming an adult, therefore, is capable to fully understand and support the importance of their future. However, according to resources zencollegelife, voting has been off the radars for a number amount of generations for millennials. In addition, resources have shown that in the year of 1980 the total population of young adults voting was 48.2%; however, over the years it has drastically decreased to 46% during the year of 2016 according to United States Census Bureau. The Census Bureau is a credible resource full of statistics and fielded the voting and registration supplement to the current population (Census). Nearly, all ages of eighteen and twenty have the least amount of voting because they tend to oversee that the laws do not apply to their adulthood. Therefore, according to zencollegelife, a program, surveyed by many Americans reports multiple reasons why they don't vote. Resources have shown that the decision of voting for election, debates, campaign, the law, seems so simple but it is really a long process. Thus, the long process of registration requirements adds to another reason why young adults don’t consider to vote because they are “too busy”. Nonetheless, the idea or thought of voting has been pushed aside because the opportunity to vote seems as if their vote would not be counted. More importantly, millennials having the opportunity to turn a new leaf over in political society decreased significantly because they believe that in order to vote there must be a depth of understanding about politics and must be interested as a profession. However, ages of eighteen to twenty young adults choose not to participate in the choice of passing laws because the law has a very little effect on their society. But, what young adults don’t understand is that the law surely affects them as much as any other age groups, for example, school benefits, rights in the society, alcohol and drug usage, legal requirements that affect their future and community (Massvote). 

	The status of people voting isn’t the desire to benefit a candidate, party or issue, but rather to keep a civic ripper effect going on and thus benefit the nation (Google). People vote because it is their norm and because they truly believe that there can be changes within the society. Most importantly, citizens vote because it makes them feel good mentally and because it makes them look good proudly flaunting “I voted” stickers (Google). It is not till afterward that people realize that their vote matters. Thus, it’s when people begin to vote when situations of the issue have taken effect. The people vote so that they can create a bind to illustrate to others that the decisions that are circled on a poll ballot can make a difference, and also create an awareness. The idea of voting is to create a voice so that "For this Nation to remain true to its principles, we cannot allow any American's vote to be denied, diluted, or defiled. The right to vote is the crown jewel of American liberties, and we will not see its luster diminished,” once said by Ronald Reagan the 40th president of the United States (Vote). 

	Voting can help build a community of trust and help show that people have the ability to impact the world around them (nonprofitvote). People often ask why vote? Certainly, others will do the duty to make that decision for our society. However, voting binds people together as a community. It will set out a good example for younger generations that voting is a “right, a duty, and an honor, it can make a difference,” said by Doc Jesse. Why should you vote? Various reasons that affects everyone worldwide, because the laws have been taken to the extreme. The amount of controversies and tragedy that has been campaigning all over the world is gun violence, school shootings, that need to come to an end. Yet many people still question whether they should take the chance of voting or not. Over the year, too many controversies have happened causing it to take a heavy toll on the country as a whole, especially because Donald Trump, whom tweets about political issues, was chosen to be 45th president of the United States of America (Wikipedia).  The number amount of casualties that has happened all over the world starting this year, 2018, has been a total of 17 casualties (CNN). Therefore, no more. Vote to end gun violence. Vote to make a difference. Voting does not just mean presidential elections but also debates and campaign as well (Google). People are creating campaigns and organizing marches and specific days to honor those whom were a victim in the school shooting. Thus, voting can help change the endangerment of a well child being and secure school environments, making sure that everyone is avoiding the ideal of corruption. Help prevent another student from being feared to walk onto a school campus. Prevent any more violence that this world is capable of. No one can force you to vote but as Franklin Delano Roosevelt the 32nd president of the United States once claimed, "Nobody will ever deprive the American people of the right to vote except the American people themselves and the only way they could do this is by not voting." 

	The society politically urges anyone to vote so it can allow their voice to be heard. It is therefore called “freedom of speech” allowing anyone the age of 18 and older to vote for what they morally and political beliefs in. No one is denied the chance of voting, it is determinedly up to people to decide whether voting is an important ideal. The importance of voting is that it will make this country a true democracy. Being able to vote will help determine the important aspects of our school systems to health care to homeland securities (annenburgclassroom). The importance of voting is so that others can hear and see that change is the beginning of creating a difference in the society. Voting will allow citizens to tell the government what they want to do, thus, hopefully, others will gain the perspective of how important voting is. 

































	Works Cited

Brookshire, Bethany. “4 Reasons Why Many People Don't Vote.” Science News for Students, 7 Nov. 2016, www.sciencenewsforstudents.org/article/4-reasons-why-many-people-dont-vote. 

“Everything You Need to Vote.” VOTE.org, www.vote.org/. 

File, Thom. “Voting in America: A Look at the 2016 Presidential Election.” The United States Census Bureau, www.census.gov/newsroom/blogs/random-samplings/2017/05/voting_in_america.html.

Google, Google, www.google.com/. 

“Presidency of Donald Trump.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 4 Apr. 2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidency_of_Donald_Trump. 

Secretary of State, www.sos.wa.gov/_assets/elections/history-of-voting-in-america-timeline.pdf . 

“Speak Outs - Path to the Presidency: Why Is It Important to Vote?” Annenberg Classroom, 5 Nov. 2012, 

“The Importance of Voting.” MassVOTE, massvote.org/the-importance-of-voting/. 

www.annenbergclassroom.org/speakout/path-to-the-presidency-why-is-it-important-to-vote. 

Zen College Life. “The 7 Reasons Most Americans Don't Vote.” Zen College Life, www.zencollegelife.com/the-7-reasons-most-americans-dont-vote/. 