Understanding College Writing

In high school, writing is more of a formatted type of writing, whereas in college is more of a diverse/ open to conversation type of writing. There is different expectation to writing in high school from college writing. In high school, teachers use the formatted way due to the time limit they have to grade all those papers. In college, professors focus on the quality and content of the assignment. In high school, students have to deal with writing on a topic they are not interested in no matter what and are given a format to complete it. In college you have to deal with it as well however, you are being taught how to write it seeing it from a different perspective.

	In high school, teachers’ grade with a formulaic format because they have many student’s essays/ writing assignments they must grade so they find the easiest way to grade all the papers. “We have too many students and too little time for grading, so we often allow students to follow a formula to produce a product” (Mosley 58). So, when students attend their first year in college it is challenging to change from the formulaic why taught to them, to the college level expectations of having a sophisticated level of writing expected from the professors. English teachers in high school do not have the time to focus on showing students how to write papers that are college level because they have to teach to a certain curriculum that can help the students in their other classes. 

	Teachers in high school do not assign as much writing assignments because they know that they have a limited time to grade those papers; they also have to prepare students for test like the SAT, AP test, and so on. However, this affects students when going into college because students need to be prepared for this competitive world and need knowledge to prepare different types of writing assignments that are not just in a formatted way but, have to be informative to the readers. “In order to prepare students for careers in today’s competitive world, college students are required to produce very specialized writing tasks in their classes such as “lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, and interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, and essay questions based on different sources of information and specific professional models” (Gottschalk and Hjortshoj 4) (Mosley 59). Students in college have to write different papers for different classes according to their major and classes taken in which those papers have to contain informative content. 

	In college, you learn to write in a more academic type of way instead of the personal writing. “To make in impact as a writer, you need to do more than make statements that are logical, well supported, and consistent” (Graff and Birkenstein 4). In order to make you writing impactful you need to have the “Pre-Information” (Course Lecture). Pre-information is information that is given to you in different sources such as essays, reading, speeches, videos, information online, etc. That can be used to create an academic/ informative assignment in which others can relate and/or respond either in a positive or negative way. If the essay or assignment is created in the way were others have the sufficient information to understand that you proving a point; but not just having you state them is an informative assignment. 

	In college, you learn to use the readers/audiences points of views in your favor. Using the They Say, I Say template. This template is expanding to what you learned in high to create a more college level essay. Using others points of views to create and argument and prove you point. It can either be opposing with their argument or agreeing with their argument. Like the great leader, Martin Luther King did in his letter “You deplore the demonstrations taking place in Birmingham. But your statement, I am sorry to say, fails to express a similar concern for the conditions that brought about the demonstrations.” (Graff and Birkenstein 5). He is opposing to the other side and then stating his argument of why he disagrees.  





































Work Cited

“Chapter 5.” What is “College-Level” Writing?, by Patrick Sullivan and Howard Tinberg, 

	National Council of Teachers of English, 2006, pp.58-68.  

Course Lecture. “English 5A.” Academic writing. Academic writing, 8 Feb. 2018.

“Chapter 1.” They Say, I Say 2016 Mla Update, by Gerald Graff and Cathy Birkenstein, 2016.