Happiness: What We Look for But Never Really Understand



          Happiness is the meaning and purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence.

                                                                                                   -Aristotle



          Usually when we think of definitions, we see them as they are, but whs to defining happiness its complexity has unique meaning for every one of us. Experience through experience, or even sometimes more than one, can become someone’s happiness.  In other cases, it is what we search for and strive to be one day. And in more than others, we still can’t quite define what makes us happy. It’s almost a tossed fortune to see what it will be. I came upon this idea when reading, Jordan B Peterson’s “12 Rules for Life, An Antidote to Chaos”. A particular chapter in the book titled Pet a Cat When You Encounter One in The Street had caught my attention. Although, it may not have talk about cats nor petting, Peterson, managed to talk about both his children and how he realized he’s powerless to all the possibilities of danger, they could be exposed to just as any parent. Being a psychologist, he tells the reader how to manage things when they are too much. In a sense, like a cat when it allows itself to be stroked only for a while, he tells us we must enjoy the few seconds, the few moments we get to be happy. And as people we cherish every moment. However, because it lasts for only so long we search for it again. By the time we notice, we’ve already begun to interfere with what happiness is. Whoever said things needed to be a certain way? Especially someone’s happiness? 

         The big picture is different on many levels; Buddha believed true happiness could only be experienced through suffering first, Aristotle, thought it was something that kept the humanity, Einstein thought it could be found in a life goal, and like many others it’s something everyone questioned. Eventually, it ideas rewired these ways of how to live. In fact, this is our goal for just about every year around when it comes to New Years. It isn’t anything new we don’t know about. And yet we happen to let it go all at once, then question what now, to be happy again? We know what makes us happy, but don’t know how to keep it for a longer time beside being positive. We search for answers; in books, videos, rituals, etc.  In a post titled “In Search of Happiness” author, Mike Indursky searched the number of books based off happiness: 

My guess was about 3,000. I was off by a mere 20,000. Yes, there are more than 23,000 books with happiness in the title! Sure, not all of them are addressing this self-help category, like The Happiness of Penguins, but an overwhelming number of them are. From professors like Tal-Ben Shahar, who teaches the highly-popular positive psychology course at Harvard, to Gretchen Rubin, whose own path for happiness led to a New York Times bestseller, to Gabrielle Bernstein, a former PR executive who lives and breathes the topic, to the famous Dr. Andrew Weill, who admitted to lifelong depression and the need to find happiness, there are countless experts around the world all offering their points of view, theories, exercises and recommendations on helping people improve their happiness… Searching for happiness is a marvelous pursuit. And perhaps, just perhaps, if my fact/hypothesis is correct, if people continue to search for and improve their happiness, we might just see a positive impact.

He came to discover there were lots of different recommendations on what to do, from resorting to positive thinking, exercises, and really just about everything people can think of to make themselves happier. But he also admitted another thing, “Telling an unhappy person to be happy is like telling a short person to be tall.” Stating the obvious, of course, he also came to question maybe happiness is the answer to creating positivity. While someone else can say “you need to think positive” to be happy? Its own way of how it works is just as confusing. Someone else can argue if you are happy, because it is emotion, you may act on impulse. Others, happiness brings good things to the earth and people around you or vice versa. It’s really something all sides can say besides these ones. 

          The often question we get when walking into anywhere with people will usually start with “Hi, how are you?” And almost just as always reply with, “Good.” The one time this will not do, is in a yearly physical exam. Where as in “good” is not a great description. In fact, your happiness is rated upon what you say and how you act in that situation. Giving out a little too much information may even have them think you’re experiencing depression, and rarely, but could happen, be medicated pills. According to Greater Good Magazine, happiness can contribute to protecting your heart, strengthen your immune system, combat stress, will have people experience less aches and pains, can help combat disease and disability, and overall, help lengthen our lives. Theories, that are trying to still understand the how happiness influences people and what causes it. “Several of the studies cited below suggest that happiness causes better health; others suggest only that the two are correlated—perhaps good health causes happiness but not the other way around…. it will take time to figure out the exact mechanisms by which happiness influences health, and how factors like social relationships and exercise fit in” (Newman). It could be the way we keep our body healthy, the way we interact with people and or exercise, that make us feel happy, but there is no certainty. 

          Even then, with all these different answers to finding happiness, it takes away from the meaning by giving us almost a direct command on what to do with our lives. Try this and try that. ‘…but if that's all you do, you don't get a happy person, you get an empty person’” (Seligman). So yes, people will try getting rid of negativity, looking towards the positive side, taking recommendations, but it becomes frustrating when you can’t manage doing these things to maintain your “happy self”. Reading through different findings of observations, studies, personal experiences, signs all point to happiness as something different. In all categories of science, psychologist, parents, people from day to day interaction, it’s become a factor of our human existence and how we’ve come to still have some peace. It demonstrates happiness comes when it does, it’s not something we can set our minds to because otherwise wouldn’t that be a meaningful as pleasure when we do get that feeling, a state psychologist call “flow”. Although we know the definition of happiness, what’s difficult to understand is the how to achieve this as an everlasting life. 













Work cited

Kashdan, Todd B. “The Problem with Happiness.” Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 29 Sept. 2010, .

Newman, Kira M. “Six Ways Happiness Is Good for Your Health.” Greater Good, 28 July 2015,

greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/six_ways_happiness_is_good_for_your_health.

Indursky, Mike. “In Search of Happiness.” The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 7 Dec. 2017, .

“Pet a Cat When You Encounter One on The Street.” 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos, by Jordan B. Peterson et al., Random House Canada, 2018.

Sample, Ian. “Why Do Some People Enjoy Life and Others Don't?” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 19 Nov. 2003, www.theguardian.com/society/2003/nov/19/1.







