Every February millions of Americans gather around their giant 70-inch flat screen televisions to watch the Super bowl and according to CBS News 103.4 million people watched it this year. The other thing that they watch are the commercials that come with it. Most of these are funny commercials and usually advertise for themselves because of how big their brand already is. However, some commercials will use a public figure to manipulate an audience. Ram truck’s commercial “Built to Serve” is a perfect example of this.

The commercial starts out with a quote from Dr. Martin Luther king Jr’s sermon “The Drum Major Instinct” which says, “If you want to be recognized wonderful. If you want to be great wonderful. But recognize that he who is greatest among you shall be your servant. (Amen) That's a new definition of greatness.” (MLK). This sermon was given to church goers and the overall message that Dr. King was trying to preach was that people should not want to draw attention to themselves and to not be selfish because it was not the life that Jesus would have wanted them to live. He gives many examples about how even Jesus’s disciples themselves had selfish tendencies. 

Yes, if you want to say that I was a drum major, say that I was a drum major for justice. (Amen) Say that I was a drum major for peace. (Yes) I was a drum major for righteousness. And all of the other shallow things will not matter. (Yes) I won't have any money to leave behind. I won't have the fine and luxurious things of life to leave behind. But I just want to leave a committed life behind. (Amen) And that's all I want to say. (MLK).

I believe that the overall message lies within this quote from the sermon. That message is that people should leave all of their human ties and tendencies behind to follow God and live for him.

Historically this sermon was very important looking back to the time and the people that were listening. This was his last sermon delivered at Ebenezer Baptist Church, in Atlanta, Georgia. Dr. king was assassinated two months later in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4th, 1968. The sermon he gave along with many others was very important. He led the civil rights movement with nonviolent protests showing he could live the way he preached which goes to show that his messages were powerful at the time. 

The “Built to Serve” ad goes on to show people doing “great” things, from football players practicing hard at practice to a fireman saving a kid from a fire which makes people feel good after all, this gives off a sense of a true American. They then go on to show a Ram Truck for about two seconds which is what they should have done from the start. For the first minuet of the ad it is showing all the things that make a person great which gives the audience a feeling of motivation followed by what they are actually advertising. 

What is this advertisement actually trying to tell its viewers? It could be an ad showing Dr. Martin Luther King’s sermon to motivate people to be better, or it could be to actually advertise a truck which they showed for two seconds. The entire ad is focused on the short phrase taken from Dr. King’s sermon followed by a ram truck. Clearly it is trying to say that a Ram Truck will make a person great. This places a certain type of pressure on the soon to be truck buyer because they are not being sold a truck but rather something to make them think that they are great.

This alone is a very manipulative way of advertising. In Jack Solomon’s essay “The culture of American Advertising” he says, “appealing to our subconscious emotions rather than to our conscious intellects, advertisements are designed to exploit the discontentment’s fostered by the American dream.” This commercial is doing just that by reaching out to the audience’s sense of patriotism, because who wouldn’t buy a truck if it makes then as American as they can be. 

A truck is usually more of a tool when it comes to its use. When people look for a truck they look for something that they can haul anything on. Ram trucks is famous for advertising to farmers or the average conservative Joe who appreciates trucks because it an “American” car. They used the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. quote because he was an integral part in shaping The United States into what it is today. Another thing that was used to draw attention was the fact that the quote used in the advertisement was a sermon given by a Christian man giving that appeal to emotion to these conservative truck buyers. 

To present an effective ad one must research on what it is they are going to place in their Ad and Ram Trucks completely failed in doing so. The line they used from his sermon sounds like a really inspiring and motivating ad but the problem was that they used it to advertise something. This was actually a sermon given to church goers to tell them not to be caught up in materialistic things and not to fall for the ways that advertisers try to sell them things.

You know, those gentlemen of massive verbal persuasion. And they have a way of saying things to you that kind of gets you into buying. In order to be a man of distinction, you must drink this whiskey. In order to make your neighbors envious, you must drive this type of car. In order to be lovely to love you must wear this kind of lipstick or this kind of perfume. And you know, before you know it, you're just buying that stuff. That's the way the advertisers do it. (MLK).

This sounds made up but Dr. King actually said this in the same speech and Ram Trucks actually used a different part of this same speech in their Advertisement. To me it is very ironic that Ram Trucks tries to manipulate people with a sermon that was given to people so that they could watch out for the very same thing that Ram trucks is doing in this advertisement. This completely throws their credibility out the window.	

	I took it upon myself to see what it was that people had to say about this particular commercial so I looked at some comments made by Youtube users, and most of them had the same thing to say. The fact that they used Dr. Martin Luther King Jr’s sermon to advertise a truck or a brand was the big problem. Most thought like myself how ironic it was that Ram Trucks used a quote for a commercial that Dr King would have been outraged to see if he was alive today. It is very obvious that Ram trucks was not successful with this advertisement because it caused some controversy the same day it was aired on television.  

	While Ram Trucks might have a reputation to uphold they did do a good job in cause a conversation about their ad and whether that conversation is good or bad to them at least people are talking about it. This also may or may not do anything for sales which is the reason they aired the commercial in the first place but like state before this advertisement might have been brought forward to start a conversation.











































Sources cited page



.



Solomon, Jack. ”Masters of Desire: The Culture of American Advertising.” Signs of Life in the U.S.A.: Readings on popular Culture for Writers. 6th ed. Ed Sonia Maasik and Jack Solomon. Boston:Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2009. 523-534.



Ram trucks “Built to Serve”



Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “The Drum Major Instinct” 



 “Dr. King is assassinated.” History.com, A&E Television Networks, www.history.com/this-day-in-history/dr-king-is-assassinated.



















	

	

	

	