Responsible Pet Ownership

	Recently, I have began to volunteer with the Friends of the Anytown Animal Shelter, a non-profit organization that helps the animal shelter get its pets adopted or fostered. It so happens that this animal shelter is a no kill shelter, meaning that they do not kill the animals that come into its doors. This also means that there will be many animals in need of homes quickly because within the Central Valley, there is a problem of overpopulation in unwanted pets, that causes roughly around 18,000 pets to be kill in shelters that do not have enough space, according to Veronica Miracle from abc30. Which is why the Friends of Anytown Animal Shelter advocates for people to be responsible pet owners. Many believe that the important part of caring for a pet is simply feeding them, playing with them, and clean up after them, but beyond that, the people forget the importance of caring for a pet is also taking precautions and understanding the responsibilities.

	In America, we consider pets to be our companions and welcome them into our homes to care for them. This is brings responsibility. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, also known as AVMA, a responsible pet owner is committed, invested, and prepared as well to care for the pet.

 To be committed to the pet means “Keep only the type and number of pets for which you can provide appropriate food, water, shelter, health care and companionship, provide appropriate exercise and mental stimulation, properly socialize and train your pet”(AVMA). In “Getting A Puppy? Prepare For The Commitment,” Puplife advises us to ask ourselves questions like "Have I Done My Homework?” (puplife) or “Do I Have Enough Time To Raise A Puppy” (puplife). They mention some of the responsibilities. 

“Puppies require an abundant amount of care and attention. They need to eat 3 or 4 times a day for the first 5 months. They must be taken out for potty breaks every two hours. They need to learn puppy manners like how to sit on cue and how to walk on a leash. Puppies also need lots and lots of exercise and playtime. And don’t forget, your puppy will need to visit the vet frequently for inoculations and check ups” (Puplife).

The care that a pet needs is an all round clock job, similarly to caring for a child one can say. They required a lot of attention, especially in the first couple of months. Whether It is a puppy/kitten or a grown dog/cat, providing that attention created a bond between the owner and the pet. 

To be invested means to “Recognize that pet ownership requires an investment of time and , make sure your pet receives  (vaccinations, parasite control, etc.), as well as care for any illnesses or injuries”(AVMA). When is comes to health care of a pet, spaying or neutering is important and many owners do not know that. Owners, like myself, hope to allow our pets to reproduce to get puppies or kittens. What we do not realize is that we are actually contributing to the unwanted pet population. As reported by the American Society for the prevention of Cruelty to Animals or ASPCA, “By spaying or neutering your pet, you’ll help control the pet homelessness crisis, which results in millions of healthy dogs and cats being euthanized in the United States each year simply because there aren’t enough homes to go around”(ASPCA). By allowing our pets to reproduce, we are making it harder for pets who already exist to find a home, which eventually is what caused the overpopulation of unwanted pets in the shelters. ASPCA also mentions that spaying and neutering has its behavioral benefits as well. Neutering a male pet can actually make them less aggressive.

Another important factor when being invest in your pet is keeping the pet updated with their vaccines. Just like in humans, vaccines prevent disease to occur in pets. For example, the parvovirus vaccine in canines is given three times in the first three months of a dog’s life to introduce the virus and allow the dog's immune system to recognize it, then fight it. Without this vaccine, the mortality rate of the virus is 15%, according to “ParvoVirus Part 2,” by Dana Scott. Owners understand that it takes plenty of responsibility. 

To be prepared means to “, including assembling an evacuation kit, make alternate arrangements if you can no longer provide care for your pet, recognize any decline in your pet's quality of life and make timely decisions in consultation with a veterinarian”(AVMA). During an emergency, it is important to have a plan of what to do. An example, in which to follow, of being prepared for a natural disaster is what the The Humane Society does. Recently in the last year, there were two hurricanes that occured in the U.S., that left many dogs and cats lost or abandoned.  According to “The Rescue Networks That Save Cats and Dogs from Hurricanes”, Sarah Zhang mentioned that “The Humane Society of the United States, anticipating a deluge of lost and abandoned pets after the recent natural disaster, began coordinating flights of animals already in Texas shelters to other parts of the country”(Zhang). Having back to back hurricanes meant lots of work for the society, but they were prepared by having a plan. There plan of action was first to rescue and relocate shelter pets. After they were rescued, the organization promoted fostering and adoption to those that could. 

Moreover, planning ahead is not just used in cases of emergency, they can also be used when the time comes to put the pet down. Two reasons to why pets are euthanized is due to old age or terminal illness, in which the animal made not recover. As explained by the Washington State University, “It may not be feasible financially, personally, or in your pet’s best interest to opt for, or continue treatment, despite your undying love for them”(WSU). They point out that one should ask themselves the question “How long may he continue to have a good quality of life?”(WSU). Responsibly, one must plan ahead to be prepared for things such as treatments and how long to go with the treatments. If treatment does not work, WSU mentions that planning that extra time with the pet to say goodbye is advised.   

	Like AVMA has mentioned, being a responsible pet owner takes effort of commitment, investment, and preparation. Being a responsible pet owner benefits the pets who do not have an owner or a home. This benefits more than just the pet that the owner is caring for by allowing animals in shelters to get the opportunity to get adopted. In turn, helps bring down overpopulation in the Central Valley. 















Work Cited 

“Getting A Puppy? Prepare For The Commitment!” PupLife Dog Supplies, 

www.puplife.com/pages/getting-a-puppy-prepare-for-the-commitment.

Miracle, Veronica. “SPECIAL REPORT: Pet Overpopulation in the Valley and How One City Is 

Becoming a No-Kill Community.” ABC30 Fresno, 18 Nov. 2016, 

abc30.com/pets/special-report-pet-overpopulation-in-the-valley-and-how-one-city-is-bec

oming-a-no-kill-community/1612934/.

“Parvovirus Part 2.” Dogs Naturally Magazine, 28 Apr. 2017, 

www.dogsnaturallymagazine.com/parvovirus/.

“Responsible Pet Ownership.” Responsible Pet Ownership, 

.

“Spay/Neuter Your Pet.” ASPCA, www.aspca.org/pet-care/general-pet-care/spayneuter-your-pet.

Zhang, Sarah. “The Rescue Networks That Save Cats and Dogs From Hurricanes.” The Atlantic, 

Atlantic Media Company, 27 Sept. 2017, 

.



