The Conversation About The Education in America

     Who deserves a right to education?  A better question to ask is who deserves a good education.  The purpose of education is to prepare students for their futures and the challenges they will face.  However, the United States is ranked low on the PISA survey- a ranking system of education to show where countries are- (oeced.org) even though their importance of education is so high. This begs the question: why is the United States ranked low ? 
     The core focus of education in other countries is significantly different compared to the United States.  Anu Partanen , a Finnish writer who also writes pieces for the New York Times and other news outlets, shares her insight on the situation with education involving the United States and Finland.  In her essay, Finland’s School Success: What Americans Keep Ignoring, the conversation about education by mentioning Finland and their education system’s focus.  Comparing the United States and Finland, the reader can observe that Finland has higher scores / results on the PISA survey compared to the US (976).  Partanen shares what Finland offers its students from courses to availability to enriching students and their futures.  She also shares from her essay how Finland’s students are more free to learn at their own pace and have time to be kids (977).  This kind of environment encourages the desire to learn unlike how the United States or other competitive countries are with the scores and constant standardized tests.  In the United States , students are pushed to meet a requirement in order to compete in a global scale.  However, students don’t really absorb that info and leave with nothing but facts.  The United States also has private schools which are more pricey that drive towards better results.  Partanen included that education is practically free for all age groups and “every person in Finland attends public school…”(978).  This quote shows that the thought of tuition fees don’t go through Finnish students’ minds which adds to their positive results.  With the individual grading, focus on the eagerness to learn, and allowing students to go as high as they want plays into the factor that Finland is one of the top ranking countries in education.  The stress and pressure of standardized testing puts on students can possibly be another reason why the United States isn’t at Finland’s level on the PISA.   Partanen highlights how the idea of not competing in rankings of education as “un-American” (979).  She states how Finland’s success “is not competition between teachers and between schools, but cooperation”(979).  Partanen also includes how Finland didn’t focus their reform on excellence but on equity (980).  That ideal Finland refined in their education system is the key to their success.
     Looking at the United States, Kate McGee reports in What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College  about how a certain school called Ballou High School is passing students who don’t really deserve to.  The possible reason for schools like Ballou that pass unenthusiastic students can be that teachers feel accountable for their students rather than just given responsibility like Finland’s teachers are.  From what McGee shared, Ballou faculty worries about the number of graduates for their own salaries and for the sake of competition( npr ).  Thus the focus in Ballou is on excellence or satisfying results rather than equality for each student.  
     Jonathan Kozol, an award-winning writer who covers stories in social justice and public education, contributes to the conversation with his essay/ report on a certain high school in Los Angeles named Fremont High School or  ironically called “the Friendly School”.  Kozol reports his observations from his time there and points out the inequality in American high schools.  He includes in his essay the poor conditions of that high school such as the large class sizes that had “over 40 students” (Fremont High School, 716).  The ability to even go to the bathroom in that school is a challenge from what Kozol adds(Fremont High School, 718).  The probable cause for this can be linked to the surrounding economy and/or value of homes around the school zones.  Red Lining or zoning the rich and poor classes determine what the schools in the selected areas are given.  Because of the limitations bestowed on the poorer schools, they offer limited courses and many of which don’t help the students succeed at all.  Kozol shares that the school offers “service classes” and even requires “the Technical Arts” to students that don’t really mean anything(720).  In a sense, these students are put on the back burner while more privileged ones - like those in Beverly Hills as reported by Kozol - have a wider and more enriching subjects that allow the students to excel (720).  One can even say that schools and students that seem to have potential to add to the scoreboard that is the PISA is given better opportunities than those who do not.  A student named Mireya had her statement included in the report in which she asked Kozol why students who need help don’t but those who don’t need help get it anyway (723-724 ).  His report shows the lack of equity within the American school system. 
     Even with the contrasts of United States education and other countries such as Finland, we can start to see what American education is all about.  Overall, education is a tool or foundation that builds a better society.  It is supposed to provide students the opportunities to prepare for their futures and inevitably secure the future generations.  Seen in other instances, education equals class or properness respectively.  Students are given the abilities and practice to problem solve as well.  However, in the United States students are given limitations due to their financial situations and/or social class.  This unfair system denies a good percentage of people from being included in their society or economy.  The lack of equity within the American education system is a strong factor to why the United States is low on the PISA.  The conversation that is being brought up by Partanen, McGee , and Kozol is that America’s education system is flawed and is falling behind other countries due to how things are now.  The American school system is failing its students with its problems of inequality among the school districts.  The authors mentioned here highlight that in the end , education has a purpose .  Finland’s methods and goals differ from the United States significantly.  Partanen mentioned in her work that Finland’s whole philosophy is not based on competition like how the United States is (979).  As mentioned before, teachers are accountable for their students and face consequences when their students don’t meet the standard whereas Finnish teachers are just responsible to teach.  The United States is ranked lower due to the lack of equity within the education system.  How can students succeed when they are already told that they don’t have the potential because of their livelihood?  How can the United States move up in the PISA ranking if we can’t include every student no matter their level of income?  Perhaps if the United States follows Finland’s example of true equity for our system, we can see change.













Works Cited
 Kozol, Jonathan. “Fremont High School." The Norton Field Guide to Writing, 4th  
ed., W.W. Norton & Company, 2006, pp. 716-724.

McGee, Kate. "What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into 
College." NPR.org, 28 Nov. 2017, www.npr.org/sections/ed/2017/11/28/564054556/what-really-happened-at-the-school-where-every-senior-got-into-college. Accessed Feb. 2018.

 Partanen, Anu. “Finland's School Success: What Americans Keep         
Ignoring." The Norton Field Guide to Writing, 4th ed., W.W. Norton & Company, 2006,    pp. 976-982.

"PISA 2015 Results In Focus." OECD.org - OECD, 
www.oecd.org/pisa/pisa-2015-results-in-focus.pdf. Accessed Feb. 2018.