



High expectations

	Was high school english pointless?  Did high school writing prepare you for college writing? High school english writing is different than college writing. There are so many differences between the two it has you wondering; was high school writing useless? High school writing was there to help give you practice, it was leading up to the new learning and experiences you’d have upcoming in college. Everything you do in school is taught for a reason, and sometimes it’s just to practice for what you have upcoming. The expectations and requirements may change and get more challenging but that’s just the process. In college, writing expectations are so much higher than they were in high school. 

In high school students are given more of a guideline to follow when writing essays. They usually just follow the 5 paragraph format, introduction, three body paragraphs, and conclusion. With the 5 paragraph format you’d usually just have three different body paragraphs and that’s it. In college the reason they want you to get out of the 5 paragraph format is because you need more than just three paragraphs to go more into detail, talking about more than just what fits in three paragraphs. 

	In high school when you are assigned an essay you usually just write it, get some feedback from students then turn it in. You do get students feedback however it may not help too much, as it’s not always taken seriously. From personal experience, when we did peer edits we needed three students to read, edit, and after sign their name to show they edited it. Long story short the students would just pass their papers to each other and sign their names. Some would read it and sign their names when others would just sign their names to be done fast with the assignment. When this method did get them done fasted it wasn’t helpful at all, they wouldn’t even edit it they’d just sign their name to turn it in quickly. They weren’t using the process to help them at all.  

In college you get more than just one students feedback. Usually you turn it in on blackboard and get three other students feedback. Either through blackboard or in class peer edit groups. This process during college is so useful and helpful, because in college you don’t usually get the professors feedback until you turn in the final draft. The only way to get your professors feedback when writing is to visit his/her office hours and they may help you there. When reviewing your classmates essays your usually given guidelines on what to look for when editing. This really helps so you know how you can help improve the students writing. 

Writing assignments in college can be assigned anywhere from 3-20 pages, and sometimes even more pages can be required. Just depends on what your professors’ page requirement is. Average is about 6-8 pages but in some classes it can go up to more than 20 pages, but it also depends on the type of writing paper you are doing as well. On the other hand in high school the page requirements usually range from 1-6 pages maximum. The page requirements in high school are so much shorter, this can also be because they usually only stick to the 5 paragraph format. All throughout high school you are told to follow the 5 paragraph format, so that is just what you are used to using. However in college they don’t want you using that anymore, they try to get you to stop using this format as soon as you get into college. 

	When writing in high school you usually just write general essays such as, persuasive, argumentative, and narrative essays. There's not too much of a variety of essays to write. However in college, there are so much different essay types to write. As Mosley states in, “The Truth about High School English,” there are many different writing tasks, "lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, and essay questions based on different sources of information and specific professional models" (Mosley, 59). In college you learn so many new writing types and they’re all written a different way, with different requirements. 

	In highschool you may have done a research paper and most likely just googled about it, used wikipedia and some other not scholarly websites. When in college, research papers are so much more than just googling a topic. If you were to google that topic your researching, you’d just be able to use scholarly websites. Not only that but you’d want to use peer reviewed articles and books. You don’t want to rely on just google to get your research done it is so much more than that in college.

	At this point in the semester I have already learned many new learnings in English. I have learned, how useful They say, I say is and the templates used in them. The readings and templates used in They say, I say will become so helpful in the future. Some help that you can take advantage of here in college is the Learning Center in the library. That is another thing different from high school and college, there are a lot more resources and assistance you could get with not only writing but so many more subjects. 

	Also another main thing I’ve learned thus far this semester is, when writing you want to write what others say first and after continue showing your view on it. Your opinion as well, just start with what they say first then move on to your opinion. This way helps you start and get more of an idea of what you want to say, and you can continue from there. 

	Overall the main message trying to get across is that, college writing is so much more work needed to be put in, and detail. It is different than high school writing, however the writing done in high school was just giving you practice to be able to learn all the new types of writing you’ll be doing in college. Just from where we are in this semester alone I have learned much about writing and how you shouldn’t stress too much on it. Take your time, use the help your given, take advantage of the They say, I say book, and apply what you've learned to your writing.  





























Works Cited:

Mosley , Milka Mustenikova. “The Truth about High School English .”      

http://removed-this-url.com/