	Martin Luther King Jr’s “Why I am opposed to the war in Vietnam” was a speech that demonstrated Dr. King’s desire for peace above all other things. A desire that burned so strong that he was willing to cut ties with the most powerful men in the world in order to seek peace for the Vietnamese and his people. A desire that lead him to delay the equality and peace of his people if it meant equality and peace for the Vietnamese as well. A desire motivated by love, religion, and social pressure. Dr. King had given several reasons as to why he disapproved of the Vietnam war. Each reason followed with rational thought and passion. Yet not all people approved and were satisfied with Dr. King’s words.

	Money was a reason of Dr. King’s disapproval of the war. But it did not come from the fact that we are spending too much of it. Instead it spawned from the idea that we could be using that money spent at Vietnam on the people who needed it more back in the United States. Almost as to gain the support of the lower class, he claimed the war as an attack to the poor. He then goes on to say “We were taking the black young men who had been crippled by society and sending them eight thousand miles away to guarantee liberties in Southeast Asia which they had not found in Southwest Georgia and East Harlem.”. This is another reason to why he opposed the war. Setting aside the idea of world peace, he does not want people to forget what he originally fights for. He wants the American people to understand that because the United States is so fixated on delivering equal rights and opportunities to the Vietnamese, that does not mean that those same benefits are in fact in the United States for people of all color. 

	Moving aside from how the war affects the United States, Dr. King had provided a very selfless personal way the war affects himself. He claimed “I could never again raise my voice against the violence of the oppressed in the ghettos without first having spoken clearly to the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today: my own government”. He is unable to continue the civil rights movement peacefully when his own country is continuing to use violence in order to relieve the Vietnamese from their own independence. He weighs in on hypocritical America by elaborating on the fact that they cheered for him when he protested America peacefully but disregarded him when wanting to approach Vietnam similarly. Another personal reason was that he had to live up to the expectations set for him once he had won the Nobel Peace Prize. Although he mentions that he speaks of peace because of his relationship to the ministry. 

	The conditions of the innocent Vietnamese are a major motive that Dr. King claimed in his speech. That a country so inspired by the United States it used and quoted words from the United States Declaration of Independence. And that same country is being brought to turmoil and despair by the United States. Dr. King had come to understand this pain and wanted to share it to the people. Share the thought of the United States government depriving more people from equal opportunity and their own freedom. 

	The final motive that Dr. King had stated was “I speak out against this war because I am disappointed with America. And there can be no great disappointment where there is not great love.”. Dr. King established the fine line between wanting change in the country not because he hated it, but because he longed for the better of it.

	Following this speech were responses from local American to fellow world leaders. This was not a war that just affected the United States and Vietnam but instead it affected the whole world. It especially affected those third world countries who hope to one declare independence for themselves. We can see this take action at the Geneva Parley. Even though Dr. King had gained applause and support for his words there, foreign minister Thanat Khoman of Thailand spoke out not only against Dr. Kings words but also responded to his speech said 30 days earlier. Dr. King knew of the ties he would cut after his speech and he was prepared for all the backlash and thoughts of betrayal that would head his way. But from the response of the foreign minister, Dr. King did not only place his own honor on the line. He had placed the worlds eyes on the United States and their next action. The pressure was so immense that the United States decided to take absence in the Vietnam debate, as well as representatives of china, North Vietnam, and south Vietnam. Not attending alone was the United States government response to show the people that they are not in support with Dr. King. In these actions alone we can see Dr. king losing his connections with powerful men in hopes of peace and equality for his fellow men. But it was not the support of people above Dr. King’s power that was affected, it was also those who would rally with him and stand by him. 

	Dr. King had already obtained the rally and support of his fellow African American people during the beginning of the civil rights movement. But as Dr. King wanted to ensure the peace for everyone, his supporters took no time to display their disagreement in delaying their own freedom. At the time, over one-third of African American supporters and sixty percent of all supporters had claimed that Dr. King had spoken out of place for they knew it would hurt the civil rights movement. The supporters of the civil rights movement that disagreed with Dr. King’s speech did not fully understand what the civil rights stood for or were either too selfish to care about others in the world. He gave the speech in hopes to break that mindset and inspire others to realize what the civil rights movement really represented and who they should be helping. But losing supporters was no simply missing a few people at the daily meeting. The speech had also cause an arouse in their financial support. Many of the civil rights organizations of the time had reported to the associated press and explained how they had very little cash and claiming that they were in a very difficult period at the moment. From this we can begin to understand why many of the Civil right movement supporters began to show their disapproval towards Dr. King’s speech. Many committees went silent and many supporters wandered off but it is said that Dr. King never swayed a second away from what he believed in, that it had actually motivated him to not let down his supporters whether they had stayed or left. The response of the people can be question in whether they were supportive or unsupportive depending on what time frame you are looking from. The initial response was very negative but as we go on and even reflect 0on it today, it can be said the people today take it as motivation and politically correct. That Dr. King’s burning passion to bring people together had continued to live on even after his time. 

	But instead of focusing on what the majority has to say, I like to elaborate on the response of a single man that gained the media’s attention. An African American officer by the name of Earle McCaskill had shared why he opposed the war protests. He begins by explaining how he spokes for the African Americans currently at Vietnam since he himself had just returned from the war, and then follows with how he believes that Dr. King does not truly understand the war and how it is being run by Hanoi. It is very obvious why these particular man’s opposition received moments in the limelight as his demographic and past military status was sure to sway the scale on supporting or opposing the Vietnam war. He goes on to say “But I think he makes a false assumption when he concludes that the money would be used for that purpose if there were no war going on.”. This is as a direct response to when Dr. King claimed that the $500,000 we spend to kill on Vietnamese soldier would be used to help the poor instead if the war was non-existent. But Captain McCaskill was in no way supportive of the United States Government. His final major bullet pion was towards the draft. He had made a claim that the draft was bias as he noticed a disproportionate number of African Americans to white Americans, referring to an unofficial calculation that 23 percent of soldiers participating in the war were African Americans while 11 percent of soldiers participating in the war were white Americans.  It can be said that this man had no intent in insulting Dr. King but instead wanted to offer legitimately help and solutions in a sea of problems. That response such as this create the gray line in support and protest. While on one hand supporting the war as an African American can be seen as patriotic, if the so called bias draft is true you could be seen as protesting the civil rights movement or Dr. King himself. 

	Despite the constant claim of leaving the civil rights movement and focusing on the war, Dr. King never hesitated to state that the civil rights movement could not be achieved until the war was settled, that he did not see it as going down one path but instead seen it as a dual mission. Dr. King’s speech of why he oppose the Vietnam war was one that surely turn the tides in supporting the war to opposing it and exposing all the innocent lives being lost. It was a speech that had a different impact on each different organization, from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to congress themselves. It was a speech that was able to interrupt to people Dr. King’s absolute passion in seeking true peace for not only his country but for all men, women, and children of all races. 