Differences between Domestic, International, and Global Markets



Marketing is defined as the set of activities which are undertaken by the companies to provide satisfaction to the customers through value addition and making good relations with them, to increase their brand value. It includes planning, conception and execution of ideas, pricing, promotion, and distribution of a company's products with the purpose of obtaining the company's objectives and satisfying the consumers
It also identifies and converts needs into products and services, to satisfy their wants. There are three types of marketing; domestic, international, and global marketing. 

Domestic marketing is when commercialization of goods and services are limited to the home country only.  Domestic marketing is also the selling of a company's products within a local financial market. It deals with only one set of competition and economic issues which make it more convenient to do. Companies in Domestic Markets are generally provided with tax credits for employment generation and government of the country tries its level best to let domestic companies make trade agreements with foreign companies by removing barriers (regulations). In domestic trading, organization faces only one set of competitive, economic, and market issues and essentially must deal with only one set of customers, although the company may have several segments in a market. Following are three guiding principles that governs the marketing strategy:

Knowledge Based Promotion - The marketing platform is to deliver the huge benefit of products through ethically designed promotional strategies. The product will be promoted in the marketplace with a message that is focused, competitively advantageous, relevant and evocative to target audience segments, clinically supportable, and sustainable over time. 

Building Loyalty - The marketers ensure that their product is always superseded by any other alternatives and it doesn't go out of fashion. Brand loyalty is integral part in adding value to their business. 

Parameters Not Formulas - There is no set formula to devise the marketing and sales strategies and every product is different and respectively faces its own unique confluence of factors influencing its performance over time. The parameters governing should be with respect to sales and market share. Each of these parameters should be reviewed frequently through external market conditions, other corporate priorities, pricing changes, and new or revived competitors. The domestic businesses samples probably rise in the range of local suppliers whereas the internationally engaged business strives to keep their business growing such as the Nike, automobile business's, and even beauty products.

International marketing is a kind of marketing carried out by organizations overseas or across national borderlines.  International marketing is also the promotion and sale of a company's products to consumers in different countries. It is very complex and requires a huge amount of financial resources. The strategy used is an extension of the techniques used in the home country of a firm. According to the American Marketing Association (AMA) "international marketing is the multinational process of planning and executing the conception, pricing, promotion and distribution of ideas, goods, and services to create exchanges that satisfy individual and organizational objectives." Global Marketing Strategy gives a practical managerial orientation to international marketing in complex, rapidly changing global business environment. The marketing strategy focuses on customer analysis, competitor analysis and company analysis. Once marketing strategies are established the focus is done for segmenting markets, targeting markets and market positioning in the international arena. Every country has its own laws on business and a company that aims at entering into business in another country must first know about them. Consumer tastes and preferences may also differ so marketing strategies must be formulated to cater to the needs of different consumers. International marketing requires more time and effort, not to mention its being very risky too. The international market is very uncertain and a company must always be ready for changes that may suddenly occur. It requires a higher level of commitment to succeed in an international market. Although both use all the basic marketing principles, international marketing is more challenging and requires more commitment from the company because of the uncertainty and differences in laws and regulations in the global market while domestic marketing deals only with the laws and regulations of one country.  But domestic marketing requires lesser financial resources while international marketing requires huge financial resources. And, Domestic marketing is less risky and easier to conduct while international marketing is riskier and more complex. Following are the factors that need to be considered before moving abroad: 

Demographic and physical environment should be assessed in categories like population size, growth, distribution channels, etc.

Economic environment should be reviewed that goes around with the income and expenditure activities, inflation, currency stability, etc. that will contribute for the new service or product's success.

Social and cultural environment should be assessed that encompasses a wide range of anticipations and assumptions with regards to the culture and social differences.

Legal environment should be considered which includes the limitations on trade and tariffs, proper documentation and import regulations.

Political environment should be reviewed in which the government's system is included.

In terms of strategies, the international market is truly different and more complicated than domestic markets.

Individualized Marketing Strategy: This strategy is followed by companies that conduct international business in several nations and is often utilized by smaller businesses involved in only one or two foreign markets. In this strategy, political, social, and economic factors are important components of the marketing process.

Global Marketing Strategy - This strategy ignores differences between nations and based on the notion that consumers around the world are growing more and more similar and a standardized product and marketing mix can achieve enormous economies, especially in advertising, packing, and distribution because they would not be changed. 

The long held tenants of marketing are "customer value", "competitive advantage" and "focus". Organizations hence studied the market, developed the product which satisfied the customer. They followed correct marketing mix to satisfy its own objectives. However this strategy proved to be very narrow as time elapsed and hence evolved "Strategic Marketing". The focus was shifted from knowing only customer requirements, to knowing the customer in a context which includes the competition, government policy and regulations, and the broader economic, social and political macro forces that shape the evolution of markets. In global marketing term this means forging alliances (relationships) or developing networks, which works closely with home country government officials and industry competitors to gain access to a target market. The marketing objective has changed from satisfying organizational objectives to one of "stakeholder" benefits - including employees, society, government and so on. Here are the stages of global evolution: 

Management emphasis

Stage one Domestic

Stage two International

Stage three Multinational

Stage four Global

Focus

Domestic

Ethnocentric

Polycentric

Geocentric

Marketing strategy

Domestic

Extension

Adaption

Extension

Structure

Domestic

International

Worldwide area

Adaption creation matrix/mixed

Management style

Domestic

Centralized top down

Decentralized bottom up

Integrated

Manufacturing stance

Mainly domestic

Mainly domestic

Host country

Lowest cost worldwide

Investment policy

Domestic

Domestic used worldwide

Mainly in each host country

Cross subsidization

Performance evaluation

Domestic market share

Against home country market share

Each host country mare domestic marketing was in focus, with all activity concentrated in the home market. Organizations like milk marketing, solely domestically oriented organizations.

In stage two home marketing is focused, but with exports (ethnocentric). Organization probably believes only in-home values but creates an export division.

In stage three stage two organizations which realize that they must adapt their marketing mixes to overseas operations. The focus of these organizations switches to multinational (polycentric) and adaption becomes paramount.

In stage four global organizations which create value by extending products and programs and focus on serving emerging global markets (geocentric). This involves in recognizing the markets around the world which consist of similarities and differences and that it is possible to develop a global strategy based on similarities to obtain scale economies, but also recognizes and responds to cost effective differences. The strategies are a combination of extension, adaptation and creation.

In conclusion, Typically, the first area where companies seek to market their goods or services is within its own country (domestic marketing). Since the market, customer needs, tastes, geography, demographics, and distribution methods are familiar, it's often the easiest place for companies to launch a product. The four P's of marketing - product, price, place and promotion - are often easier for companies to determine within the domestic market. Companies begin marketing their goods or services within their domestic market, and expand to the global market to capture greater market share and open up new avenues for sales. Global marketing means to offer one's goods or services worldwide. Global marketing requires months of research and planning before getting into global market. It is necessary to understand different cultural, economic and political environments for success in international markets.

The main difference between the three markets in trade are global is worldwide, international is only in a few foreign countries but not all and lastly domestic is only in your home country.




















