American Education
	In America, there are many issues within the education system. Issues revolving around students family background, income, and or geographic location. After reading through articles, the authors discuss how some schools don’t have the proper tools for their students, having to deal with the poor conditions of not having enough bathrooms, classroom, and teachers to teach. Problems like these can really affect students because it creates social inequality between schools and children. Because there are schools that can’t have the same access as other schools, it’s impossible to give students the proper and full education they deserve.

	Jonathan Kozol’s ‘Fremont High School’ from, “The Shame of the Nation: The Restoration of Apartheid Schools in America (2005),” reports the unjust conditions and lack of utilities that force inadequate education within Fremont High. Kozol describes how Fremont high deals with issues like having insufficient classroom space, “nearly a third of classroom in the school were located in portables. Some... in converted storage closets.” If classrooms are located in closets effects how the teacher may assess the class. For example, if students are placed in crammed places, they tend to get fussy and fidget because of how tight they feel in a small place. Crammed places also tend to get hot when there are many people because of all the body heat. This causes students lose focus and think about how hot they may feel, they start to get frustrated and impatient, they’ll want the class session to be over to be able to leave, and teachers would have to deal with trying to keep their students attention and making sure they’re learning the material. It is important to have the proper environment for students to concentrate and learn. A teacher had explained to Kozol that some students go all day without eating because of the little time they receive for lunch. “The line for kids to get their food is very long and the entire period lasts only 30 minutes.” If student’s go all day without eating, this can cause problems like headaches and fainting students, having to be sent home because they don’t feel well and leave them unfocused in class. Students deserve to get a proper meal and a full hour lunch sitting. Kozol then goes in about the limited number of bathrooms stating, “ 15 fewer bathrooms than the law requires... only one or two are open and unlocked for the girls to use,” in which they happen to be unclean and lack the basic supplies. Mireya, a student from Fremont, states “you’re not allowed to use the bathroom during lunch... you don’t have time to use the bathroom between the periods,” as the teacher denies them the access. Mireya explains how she feels embarrassed having to explain why they need to use the bathroom during class.

Kozol then discusses how students are given unnecessary and unwanted classes, “it isn’t a question of what the students want. It’s what the school may have available... if they want to graduate.” Students should have access to courses that will prepare them for the career they want to pursue, not courses that will be useless to them. Not only are students given unnecessary classes but also are getting taught by substitutes most of the time. “Out of 180 teacher-slots, typically 25 or so cannot be filled and have to be assigned to substitutes.” If students are being taught the material by a substitute -who might not be well educated on a subject like a teacher- then the students won’t be able to learn as much. Substitutes are only supposed to fill in for a day or two and make sure student do the work that their teacher assigns them. Students have also reported that they have minimal access to the library and are unable to get reports done because of this issue. Given no free time for the library except during lunch or after school, Kozol discovers that the library is close for more than a quarter of the year because “it’s being used for other purposes such as administration of examinations... ap prep... and sometimes when the teachers need a place to meet.” Students should have full access to the library during school hours to be able to work on their homework. Libraries are provided as a resource for students, it’s what they depend on for academic research. Mireya questions, “Why is it that students who do not need what we need get so much more? And we who need it so much more get so much less?” Kozol’s purpose of this is to show how important it is to have the basic necessities provide by the school in order to give their students the proper academic education. If schools can’t provide the proper tools for their students, the higher the risk of students failing classes and low graduation rates. Students won’t receive the full education they deserve.

In the article, “What Really Happened at The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College (2017),” Kate McGee discovers that Ballou High School graduated dozens of students despite the high rates of unexcused absences through an investigation by WAMU and NPR. McGee states that half of the graduates missed more than three months of school, unexcused. According to the district policy, ”if a student misses a class 30 times, he should fault that course.” Teachers claimed that many of the students struggled academically when they did attend school. McGee had also discovered that teachers have been feeling pressure from the administration to pass chronically absent students so they could graduate. Morgan Williams, a former teacher from Ballou, shares that she had received all call from the school official -while she was on maternity leave- asking her to change a grade for a student she had previously failed. McGee stated that Ballou Principle Yetunde Reeves refused to speak to her about this story but members of the school district office spoke out. Teachers claim that they shouldn’t ignore what’s going on in the lives of students, many of them are managing effect of trauma, family responsibilities, a job, and sometimes all of the above. Despite theses problems teachers believe that pushing students to work hard is the best way for them to see a better future for themselves. “The school system need to better prepare student for the the hurdles they’ll face when they get to college, and for the school system to hold their students accountable when they don’t meet the requirements,” instead of giving them a false sense of success. “To not prepare them is unethical”

Anu Partanen, in her article, “What Americans Keep Ignoring About Finland’s School Success (2011),” addresses the social inequality that makes America’s education system so different from Finland’s. Partanen highlights how in Finland, there are no private schools. “Only a small number of independent schools exist... even they are all publicly financed. None is allowed to charge tuition fees.” On the other hand the U.S. has private schools that will charge their students thousands of dollars just to attend. “Like many of America’s best schools, Dwight is a private institution that’s costs high school students upward of $35,000 a year to attend-not to mention that Dwight.. is run for profit.” Finland ensures that every person has an equal opportunity to receive the proper education they deserve no matter their background (which includes immigration status). Unlike the U.S., Finland believes that the path to success is equity, whereas the U.S. institutes excellence. Partanen expresses that the American education system is focused on preserving competition rather than reassuring that children have a safe learning environment. Pasi Sahlberg, director of the Finnish Ministry of Education’s Center for International Mobility, explains, “schools should be healthy, safe environments for children.. Finland offers all pupils free school meals, easy access to health care, psychological counseling, and individualized student guidance.”  This is where Sahlberg believes that schools should put responsibility rather than accountability over their students. This shows how well invested Finland schools are with their children and make sure they are in a comfortable environment all around. Partenen explains that Finland achieves excellence by focusing not on competition but on cooperation, and not by choice, but by equity. Partenen message is that the problem with America’s education system is the economic inequality of society.

Academic education is the way to maintain balance of an economy. The problem with America’s education system is that they focus on excellence rather than equity. Children deserve access to education and school systems not only need to focus performance but also the progress that students make physically and mentally. It’s important that America’s school systems offers opportunities for greater things, to expand students intellectual growth and to prepare our students for the future. America’s education system needs to bring evolvement to education so our society can prosper and be more socially, economically, and equally diverse.




Work Cited

Partanen, Anu. “What Americans Keep Ignoring About Finland's School Success.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 29 Dec. 2011, .



McGee, Kate. “What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College.” NPR, NPR, 28 Nov. 2017, .



Kozol, Jonathan. “The Shame Of The Nation: The Restoration Of Apartheid Schooling In America.” New York : Crown Publishers, 2005. Print