Essay 2

    What is the issues we now face about American education? After reading Gerald Graff, Anu Partanen, and Jonathan Kozol there has been some similarities seen between their writing about issues being seen in American education. These issues are that in America they judge the students based on their social statuses which then leads for them to also be judged based on their intellectualism and misplaced when it comes to looking over their smartness. Ana Partanen, also talks about American schools are competitive rather than actually teacher there students in a way where they can understand what is being taught to them. 

    Jonathan Kozol an educator, activist, and award-winning writer has written a report about an American school he has went to observe, he named this report “Fremont High School”. This report was based on observations about the facilities and interviews he had with students and teachers from Fremont High School Located between San Pedro Street and Avalon Boulevard in South Central Los Angeles. This statement said, by a tall black student in Kozol’s report: 

“Told me that she hoped to be a social worker or a doctor but was programmed into “sewing class” this year. She also had to take another course, called “ Life Skills,” which she told me was a very basic course — “a retarded class,” to use her words — that “teaches things like the six continents,” which she said she learned in elementary school. The lack of resource in this American school holds back student’s dreams to succeed and become someone in life. They are being judged for being in that public low income school and taken the opportunity for a better education. Another powerful statement said in Kozol’s report is —“Why is it,” she asked, “that students who do not need what we need get so much more? And we who need it so much more get so much less?” said by an interviewed student from Fremont high school in Kozol’s report. This very powerful statement tells us that students who already have a little in life also are also giving less in an educational way as well which takes all their dreams away and are technical being forced to live in the same lifestyle with no “good” future. There should be a change towards this types of public schools which can lead to a positive change towards Americans education. Those low income students that live in the hood are not only “street smart” like many think it’s just that they are not giving the opportunity to polish there intellectualism. 

Gerald Graff the co-author of “They say, I say” and a professor of English and education at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Wrote “Hidden Intellectualism” essay posted in the book “They say, I say” talks about how students that live in the hood are not allow to fully show that they are “book smart”. They are also judged by saying that they focus more on sports, fashion, T.V and video games. Gerald Graff , “ In the Chicago neighborhood I grew up in, which had become the melting pot after World War II, our block was solidly middle class, …” this was mentioned by Gerald so there can be a better understanding of how the middle class lives and how there are known as where they live. Even though students are more about the outside life like sport, fashion, T.V and video games does not mean they cannot interpret those in and academic way how many professors think. “If I am right, then schools and colleges are missing an opportunity when they do not encourage students to take their nonacademic interests as objects of academic study. Students that are not intellectual smart that do not read Shakespeare and other authors that are seen as intellectual to schools does not mean that students cannot write an academic essay or article on what they know the best like makeup, t.v and sports. They should be taught how to write an academic essay instead of being judged and not given the opportunity to write on what is more interesting to them. There should be a change on how schools and teachers view students and their work. 

Anu Partanen, a Finnish writer who wrote “Finland’s School Success: What Americans Keep Ignoring” compares American Schools way of Education to Finland way of educating. She talks about how Finland’s teachers help their students succeed in a positive way without giving them do much work into which it becomes overwhelming to the students. In American schools they are more concerned in just teaching the standards that are needed to pass the standardized test(s). She also mentions how there is equality between all the students. They do not make any differences between middle class or upper class. “More equality at home might just be what America needs to be more competitive abroad” said Partanen (pg.982 Bullock and Goggin). If the same education is being provided students interact better and gain a better education.

These authors have made strong points of views on what happening with American educations and what is the best for there to be a change in Americans education. 





















Work Cited

Graff, Gerald, and Birkenstein, Cathy. “They Say, I Say” W.W. Norton & Company, 2016.

Bullock, Richard and Goggin, Muareen Daly. “The Norton Field Guide: to writing with

Readings”

