

History 12

Final Paper



	On April 30th, 1967 Martin Luther King Jr gave a sermon at Riverside Church in New York. In this Sermon King explained why he is opposed to the war in Vietnam. King has multiple frustrations with the state of the country at that time that prevented him from supporting the war. Obviously, he talked about the civil rights issues in America but he also brings up many other points. In this essay, I will be explaining the sermon that Dr. King gave and I will also be explaining how the general public reacted to the speech.

	Dr. King said that he had 7 major reasons that he did not support the war. The first reason that he had was that there are so many people in America both black and white that are struggling every single day to make ends meet and as a country we should be trying to do more to help the less fortunate people in our own country before we go into another country and fight a war. In order to put it a little more into perspective Dry Kings explains that America spent an estimated $500,000 to kill each individual soldier while the poor in our own country get 53 dollars to Spend. Dry King is saying that with all of the money that we spend on these wars we could easily do something to help the people in our country that struggle with poverty

	The second reason that King had was that poor black men were being sent to another country to fight for other people’s liberty that they don’t even get to enjoy in their country. King said that these black men were “crippled by society” he means that all of these young black men have been dealing with persecution and hate for their entire lives but now they are being sent to fight and die in the war at a higher rate than any other race. King talks about how tragic it is that black men and white men are fighting together and dying together for a country that would not even sit them in the same classroom together. He calls this “a cruel manipulation of the poor” what he means by that is that the needs of poor blacks were always ignored by the country but once there is a war and they hold some value to the United States the country then paid attention to them only to send so many to their deaths. King feels that the country uses black men when it directly benefits them but when they want rights they could care less.

	The 3rd reason that King gave for opposing the war was that it is hypocritical to everything that he had been teaching up to this point. King talks about going to the ghettos of Harlem and other places and talking to all the angry black men who were rioting and destroying the city. He said he tried to teach them nonviolence is the better way to get your point to be heard. The men relied to Dr. King with What about Vietnam? King then said he could not preach nonviolence to these kids anymore until he addressed the nation. King said how could he preach nonviolence to these kids when the country that they live in is not leading by example. He talks about how they press is messed up because for so long they were applauding everyone in the civil rights movement for being nonviolent and protesting but once someone starts teaching nonviolence towards little Vietnamese kids the country will curse and damn you.

	The 5th reason that Dr. King had was that since he received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964 he feels like he has to work harder than ever to spread the peace. Dr. King had been one of the first activist to preach so much nonviolence no matter what. After receiving this prestigious award Dr. King felt that it was his duty now more than ever to preach nonviolence to Americans. He also explained that even if he did not receive the award he would still be preaching nonviolence because of his deep devotion to the ministry of Jesus Christ.

	In Dr. Kings 6th reason he talks about how the Vietnamese people must feel about Americans coming into their land and trying to change their way of lives. He brings the people’s attention to the fact that in 1945 the Vietnamese declared their independence in 1945 when they were occupied by France. The American government said that thy were not ready to be independent so America did not recognize their independence. He then goes on to explain that France then went to war with Vietnam for 8 years with assistance from the United States. The United States was taking 80% of the war cost in a war that was not even ours to fight. He criticizes America because even after France gave up America did not and we kept fighting. America supported some of the most ruthless dictators in Vietnam one of them even went so far as to say that Hitler was the greatest hero of his life. King is disappointed with the country because of all of the killing and violence that they are supporting in a war that was not our own.

	The last reason that King gave for opposing the war was that he loves America. He talks about how he is greatly disappointed in America as a whole but he then says that you cannot be greatly disappointed in something without having great love for that thing. Kings says he is disappointed that America cannot seem to deal with the issues of racism, economic exploitation and militarism. These are all issues that directly affect his community and have been for some time at this point. King does not just bash America in a disrespectful way instead it is the complete opposite despite the persecution that King had faced up until this point he still says that he loves the country. He criticizes America but still shows a great amount of respect and patience with America. 

	There were many people at this time in history that agreed with King but at the same time there was still a lot of people that believed that our reasons to be in Vietnam were justified and right. I will now explain the reactions that people at this time had after King gave this sermon. I will talk about those that agreed with Dr. King and I will also be talking about those people that did not share the same views as him.

	In this article from the New York times on May 29th, 1967 called “Rights Gifts Lag Dr. King Reports but N.A.A.C.P Funds rise as Do Urban leagues” they talk about the amount of support that they have after the sermon that Dr. King gave. They talk about how many of the supporters had fallen off after Kings idea that they should have the civil rights movement also be a movement to protest against the war. Dr. king even received criticism from other leaders in the civil rights movement such as Roy Wilkins who was the executive director of the N.A.A.C.P.

King talks about how he lost many supporters after his speech but many of the ones that he lost were not huge donors to the cause. He said many of those lost were giving 5 dollar donations while many of the supporters gained were giving 500 dollar dentations in order to help and support the cause. Dr. Kings tone in the article is that the people do not have anything to worry about although him and his colleague never fully disclose how much the organization had. They merely said, “We have enough to not be forgotten about but we do not have enough to do everything that we want to do.”

	This article shows that Dr. Kings speech defiantly effected the support that he had during the civil rights movement. The ideas that he expressed in his sermon were unpopular opinions although he did not lose all his support he still needed all the support that he could get. I believe Dr. King did not want to worry his followers and so he never disclosed the amount of money that the movement had. Dr King said, “We are in fairly good shape” but Rev Andrew J Young said, “I Think we are in a rather difficult period right now”. These are two conflicting statements I believe that things were worse than Dr King had said but he did not want to risk losing any more followers so he downplayed how bad things were financially

	In another article from May 24th, 1967 called “Negro Officer Opposes War Protests: Disagrees with Dr. King Finds Bias in Draft” a very high ranking black military officer speaks out on how he felt about Dr. Kings speech. It is not the case that every black person agreed with Martin Luther King in the sermon at Riverside church. There was a number of black people that disagreed with his sermon among these men was Captain Earle McCaskill. He was fighting in Vietnam at the time of this interview. He said he agreed with Dr. King when he said that all of the money spent in Vietnam should be used to help the struggling kids in the ghettos but he knew it would not be used for that. He said that before the war in Vietnam the government was never spending money on the kids in the ghetto so why would they be. He goes on to say that they people who oppose the war just don’t fully understand what is going on in Vietnam. He did agree with Dr King that there were definitely more black men drafted to fight in the war than white men.  He said that the people drafting were white and biased.

	This article is a great example of the amount of backlash that Dr King received from the black community after his sermon. Many people believed that it was not the right time for Dr King to speak out on other political issues and that his main focus should have been on the civil rights movement. McCaskill said in his interview “I think this new militance of Stokely Carmicheal and Dr King and the others has done us more harm than good. I Don’t think they have any business getting civil rights mixed up with Vietnam. It will cost them Negro Support and it will cost them some white liberal support”. This was the way that many blacks felt they belived that this speech just made it more difficult for their cause.

	In this next article called “Baptist Convention opposes U.S Vietnam War policy” the people of the Baptist convention became the first black religious group to openly speak out about the United States involvement in Vietnam. It was a convention in which 2,000 delegates represented 500,000 different Baptist churches all over the country. This group of Baptist agreed with Dr King and the ideas that he talked about in his sermon. They had a resolution which called upon the President and Congress to let the United Nations deal with the issues in Vietnam and to bring out troops back home. They said that congress and the president need to focus on getting the problems in America solved.

	This article was an example of some of the support that king received from the black community. The people of this convention just wanted the problems that they were talking about for years to have some attention instead of the country putting so much time and resources into a fight that was not even ours to begin with.

	In this last article called “Civil Rights King sees a dual Mission” Gene Roberts talks about the main points from Dr Kings speech and they explain that Martin Luther king felt that the civil rights struggle could not be solved until the war was over and he said that this is the main reason that he became so involved in the peace movement. They talk about  how people believed that since congress and other officials may have resentment towards king that it would be difficult for king to form a successful civil rights coalition.

	In conclusion I have shown that Martin Luther King received a lot of backlash for his views on the war in Vietnam but he also had a lot of support. The speech caused King to lose support from people who were on his side in the civil rights movement. This was the first time that there was a lot of people from the black community that were not backing up Dr. King. There were many that believed that what he did may have ruined everything that he had been working so hard for. King knew what the consequences would be but still had the courage to speak out against injustice.

	

Works Cited

RIGHTS GIFTS LAG, DR. KING REPORTS. (1967, May 29). New York Times (1923-Current File) Retrieved from http://removed-this-url.com/



By RW APPLE Jr Special to York Times (1923-Current File)The New,YorkTimes. (1967, May 24). Negro officer opposes war protests. New 





Baptist convention opposes U.S. vietnam war policy. (1967, Sep 10). New York Times (1923-Current File) Retrieved from http://removed-this-url.com/





By, G. R. (1967, May 07). Civil rights. New York Times (1923-Current File) Retrieved from http://removed-this-url.com/



Martin Luther King, Jr., “Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam,” April 30, 1937, Riverside Church, New York, New York, 

