Kneeling down in the NFL

	In every NFL football game every football player sings the National Anthem. It's like a tradition that they do. By them doing that it shows respect to our country.  They also show respect to the  military people who fought for our country. People shouldn’t  have the choice to sit or kneel down when saying the national anthem it can show a little disrespect. They would always do the national anthem before kickoff which was likely to happen every Sunday mainly. There was always that moment of silence that they do even the people that would go to the game to watch football. So we cannot say it was only the football players to show respect, it was also every person . According to the article Time, they said “The National Anthem should be as much a part of every game as the kick-off.We must not drop it simply because the war is over. We should never forget what it stands for.” You can see they never stop because people knew what it meant for them to do it. In a way it would be rare if a player would refuse to do the National Anthem. This is a good picture that the photographer captured. 

	Since the year of 2016 Colin Kaepernick stopped standing up for the National Anthem since that time he only sat down once in the preseason football game. Since that day that he sat down so many people started to talk about him even the news reporters. It wasn't just something that Colin didn't want to do, it was an issue that he seen that is happening in our world and no one has taken care of it.  He cares about his own kind of people which that made him realize why stand up and sing the National Anthem, even though he respects people who served for the country. It's not that he don’t care about them it’s because those people who serve are treated unjustly.  In SB NATION they state, 

"This stand wasn’t for me. This is because I’m seeing things happen to people that don’t have a voice, people that don’t have a platform to talk and have their voices heard, and effect change. So I’m in the position where I can do that and I’m going to do that for people that can’t."

For that being said that was what he thought was right to do. 

	Looking at the picture of the unknown person who took it made it look so amazing. If it wasn't for the photographer it wouldn't be so great. In the NFL games photography is only token at good moments so it can be out there for social media. So when the photographer took a picture of  Colin Kaepernick and his teammate Eric it was captured in front of him. But what we don't know is that the picture was captured from a far distance instead of a close distance. According to the article career trend, “you'll need to be able to provide photos that accurately reflect what's happening. Spend time watching games, reading official rules and attending football games. Joining a professional organization for sports photographers can also help you stay aware of new developments in the NFL.”  You can see that by being a photographer it's just not just capturing picture, it's also knowing the game. But for this picture it was for an interest to be out there in the world because he’s famous for playing in the NFL. Not only should he be out there but they should of never disrespected him for taking the picture and start to write how they felt for him kneeling down.This was a moment that was so important to the photographer because he knew something that is interesting looking will be notice and  be great. Him taking a knee put a persons face to react like what just happened why did he kneel down now. Since he stood up last time it just made things worse this time because the picture was so good that it was obvious that he did something wrong.         

You can see that the only way Colin was so important in that picture was because he is known in the NFL football team, so I can say that he has done something before that has caught people's eyes. Yes you can say omg that picture looks so nice, but what we don't see is the struggle for the photographer to capture the picture. I guess you can say that photographers are not just going to capture a picture of something boring. Photographers are meant to capture thrilling moments and something that is going to make people want to see more of it. So thats why when they capture the moment of  Colin kneeling with his teammate Eric it made it so viral that every news would capture the same picture. There were so many people probably complaining about how Colin was kneeling and how it was disrespectful to our country. So many people looked away now that they seen what he did, and they probably stopped liking Colin. Now we can see not only does he put his teammates down he puts his fans down. That was a big step for him to do but  he has  his reasons for doing what he did. So yes his fans and teammates should support him for doing what he did.  

As the photo was captured there has to be a big reason behind that. Maybe it was to make fun of Colin, or maybe it was for humiliation towards Colin. Who will know why the photographer took that picture only the photographer will know the answer. Yes people might guess why and others will ignore the importance of the picture. But in reality there's always a backstory of why they captured an amazing picture of Colin and his teammate Eris kneeling down. The unknown photographer probably wanted to be out there and get all that fame for just one picture that he took. Later on you started to see other news reporters capture the same picture but with different reasoning on why they captured the picture. So there’s always a backstory in why they capture a picture but what made this picture more intense was the way it looked was so amazing by the audience. That’s why it was published to so many news websites. 

People might say that that picture was a bad moment but what we don't realize by capturing something like that those photographers are making so much money. So that's going to make the photographers want to take more epic photos of more NFL players, which they already do. They might capture every flaw and the image will speak on its own and  will represent what is happening. What we do know is that they have some pretty good experience in capturing photos. Every photo will have a story to it and it could  either be bad or it could  be good. Like I said there's a message towards every picture without a message it will be hard to understand what the picture is representing. Then the photographers have to know if the picture is token good if not, lets say they capture a picture of kaepernick running in the field. There's going to be a reason in why they captured that photo maybe he was running at a  fast speed from everyone. Just by saying that i'm trying to explain there's always going to be the message but yeah when you look at Colin and his teammate Eric people wonder okay they captured that picture because there's a backstory to that. 

Overall the person who captured Colin Kaepernick and his teammate Eric did a really good job. The photographer captured it from a view that explained a good message in why they captured the picture. For an image to be published in the news or in social media it always has to look great and interesting for the audience.  Yes what Colin did was wrong and bad but people might see in the picture that he did what he believed in. This probably wasn’t the only picture that was published out. This picture was a good picture to analyze how it was token and what people had to say about it. There was no lack in any rhetorical situation so it was easy to spot out and write about. The picture also had an interesting background when it came to the social context because this was nationwide from   a player from the Nfl team. Not only can you analyze a picture but you can analyze text, and ads.	

	













Works Cited

“How to Become Photographer for the NFL.” Career Trend, 5 July. 2017



Stites, Adam. “Everything You Need to Know about NFL Protests during the National Anthem.,      29 Sept. 2017, 



“When the National Anthem Became a Tradition at Games.” Time, Time,  Sept. 2017



