

Education

	

	If you could miss months of school and still graduate would you? What if you were trying to prepare for college but weren’t provided the right classes you needed? Education is something all people attend, whether it’s by choice or because you have to. School is meant to help and prepare you for your future, what you take from it is solely up to you. You should be able to take classes that will help prepare you, not classes that you just get put into because there’s nothing else available. Through these two schools, we see how education is taken upon differently. Some students get to choose their paths in education, while others aren’t so lucky. 

	In the text by Jonathan Kozol, Fremont High School,  there is a focus on how the students at Fremont don’t get to choose their classes they just get what’s available. As the teacher says, “It isn’t a question of what students want. It’s what the school may have available. If all the other elective classes that a student wants to take are full, she has to take one of these classes if she wants to graduate” (A teacher not named, 720). It isn’t fair that some students who want to gain knowledge have to be put into classes only because that’s all that’s available. This affects the students learning because they are getting into classes that aren’t useful for their future. If some students were able to get into the AP classes they wanted, it would help get them get on the right track. By putting a student in a type of class such as sewing class can put the student down, so much that “Mireya… began to cry. “I don’t want to take hair-dressing. I did not need sewing either… I don’t need to sew to go to college” (Mireya, 721). There are students at Fremont High School that want to continue their education in college but aren’t able to take classes that will get them where they need to be because there is not enough room. 

There are too many students at this school and are just shoved into classes that aren’t necessary but need classes to graduate. “Mireya, for example, told me that she had to take a sewing class last year and now was told she’d been assigned to take a class in hair-dressing as well”(720).  This student was told she would have to take these certain classes because that’s all that is available, even though these classes wouldn’t help her for college, if she wanted to graduate those classes are what she’d have to take. When asked what class she’d rather take, Mireya responded with, “I wanted to take an AP class” (721). This just shows how much she’d rather further and extend her education but she isn’t provided with the right sources or classes needed. Well those classes are offered, however not everyone is fortunate to take those classes due to the schools placing the students in classes. 

The purpose of this text is to inform the audience of how the system is here at Fremont high school. Not only is the main focus on how Fremont high school students don’t get the chance to pick their own classes but also so much more problems occur at this school in the way that affects their education. For example the library, “Students who needed to use the library to do a research paper for a class ran into problems here as well, because, as a result of the tight scheduling of classes they were given no free time to use the library except at lunch, or for 30 minutes after school, unless a teacher chose to bring a class into the library to do a research project during a class period” (722). Not having access to the library can be a big disadvantage when not being able to use the little resources they actually have there. Fremont high school already is low on their sources, and what they do have isn’t always useful. They also have issues with their bathroom policy, and many other issues. 

In What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College, Ballou's senior class graduates students who don’t deserve to pass due to their lack of attendance. “Half of the graduates missed more than three months of school last year, unexcused” (Mcgee). Most of the students here got passed and got to graduate even though they don’t make the requirements to graduate. At this school they are pressured to pass the students, so even though they don’t make the requirements they are still able to graduate. The students may not see this as a problem but it’s really going to affect them in the future because they don’t have the right knowledge they should have learned at this level in school. 

As said in the essay, “The majority of Ballou’s 2017 graduating class missed more than six weeks of school” (Mcgee). School has a policy of so many days you can miss to still be eligible to graduate, once you go over that many days you are no longer eligible to graduate because you missed so many days you didn’t get enough learning to pass. “An international email obtained by WAMU and NPR from April shows two months before graduation, only 57 students were on track to graduate, with dozens of students missing graduation or community service requirements or failing classes needed to graduate. In June, 164 students received diplomas” (Mcgee). Using the data and information from above that is a total of 107 students who did not meet the requirements to graduate but still ended up graduating because the teachers felt pressured that they had to pass the students. 

By passing the students even if they did not fulfill the requirements isn’t doing the student any good, in fact it is actually really hurting the student and " … giving them a false sense of success"(one current Ballou teacher). The teachers feeling pressured to pass a student is not a way a teacher should have to feel. The teachers shouldn’t have to be responsible to be the one to pass the students who don’t make the requirements just to keep their jobs. The students may feel like this isn’t affecting them because they don’t even have to try and they’ll still pass, but what’s their future going to look like if they have a high school diploma but don’t even know simple learning. As Butcher says, “I've never seen kids in the 12th grade that couldn't read and write.” This is just one example showing the students passing don’t even have the basics of learning to their attendance. 

Ultimately the main focus was how in both schools, they have negative outcomes with their learnings. Both schools have their own systems with education but still aren’t having any benefits for the students. They both have their negative outcomes, but are still different in their own ways. At Fremont high school the main focus is how the students don’t get to choose their classes but also have many little issues that as well affects their learning. In What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College, the main focus is how every student still gets to graduate even if they don’t meet the graduation requirements. The main conversation for both readings are the students receive negative outcomes that resulted in bad situations. 





 



Works Cited

McGee, Kate. “What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College.” NPR, NPR, 28 Nov. 2017, .

Bullock, Richard H., et al. The Norton Field Guide to Writing, with Readings "Fremont High School". W.W. Norton & Company, 2016.





