

Final Paper

	  Vietnam was so negatively view by so many American because of all the information that was held from the public. Even though communism was terrible and had to be stopped, The US, withheld the truth to make it seem like America had the upper hand. But, it was totally the opposite. The US wanted to rebuild governments that were seen as turning for communism. Fighting communism that threatened American’s view of democracy. The Us government was hypocritical when it came to Democracy. There was legal segregation, Enfranchisement in some states, and lack of African-American involvement in Government. The US was deceiving the countries and rebuilding their governments on these false views of democracy. Martin Luther King just wanted peace in the government. Not be worried about

		On April 30th, 1967; Martin Luther King presented a speech that tested the current view of the Vietnam war at the time. The speech was given at a church in Riverside, New York at a nondomination church, which means there is no specific religion; close to whatever god they believe in. Many Americans were worried about only one problem which was, Communism. Communism was the Main threat to American’s view of national democracy. Before the mess of the Vietnam war, Vietnam was ruled by other foreign countries, France. Originally a colony of France in the 1800. 

	The Vietnam was viewed so negatively because of the dishonesty with keeping information, threat of communism affecting surrounding other countries close to Vietnam, and the past connection with Ho Chi Minh, the leader of Vietnam and important war figure during World War 2, during that time was viewed as being a communist sympathizer and dictator. It was like Communism was a disease infecting countries and governments that America wanted to keep ties with or keep in check so there would be a nationwide democracy.

	The Speech was preached by Martin Luth King, a major political figure. Was against the Vietnam War and presented in with 7 points which explain his reasoning. King view the war as an unjust, evil, and futile war. He goes into explaining how Truth, “... is hard to come by because most nations are deceived about themselves.” It is important to express the truth, no matter what the repercussions would be. During the time of his speech there were “250,000 people staged peacefully in Washington DC asking the government to withdraw.” According to an article in The New York Times. There were many protests going on to stop the Vietnam War because of the negative view on it.

	King goes on to say that Americans are hypocritical by saying this: “Additional millions cannot bring themselves around to support it. And even those millions who do support the war [are] half-hearted, confused, and doubt-ridden.” For decades the US has used their power to take down any government that seemed wasn’t fit to rule by itself. Even though Americans think that we are being democratic with taking over nations and rebuilding. In America, we were still worrying about a Black man getting violent against a white man. America was ruling most of the world because most of the countries weren’t caught up with the capitalism and militarism that the US had grown to achieve. Since the US was so comfortable with staying top in power anything new or different challenged them. As some of the world start to catch up, the US started to slow down.

	Many people criticized his speech because he talked about how “communism [was] a judgment against our failure to make democracy real and follow through on the revolutions that we initiated.” Much of the world looked up to America’s values. The Revolutionary war was the fight for free against Britain who wanted to reclaim their property. This same situation is happening again. Every war was a fight for freedom and democracy. But, in reality much did not change when it came to civil rights until much later. There wasn’t much democracy in America. So when a country like Vietnam to embrace the idea that America had created. But, using communism as a way to establish government, the US was hypocritical. 

	King was also criticized by William F. Buckley Junior, American conservative author and commentator. Buckley talked about how the civil rights movement. He expresses that Martin luth king was unfit to talk about government affairs because “He had lost much of his following... he emerges as the Harold Stassen of the civil rights movement.”  Buckley was implying that most of the civil rights was not in power anymore, because of the increase of republican/ conservative motives that wanted to stop the Civil Rights Movement. But, leading up to this point much of the originations had improved the way of life for most African-Americans. Buckley wanted to in some way make the public feel like Martin Luther king was not a credible source. Buckley had went far enough to denounce the “dream” of liberty that Martin Luther King had for every African-American. “The freedom he had sang coast to coast had not been realized.” Since the author was conservative. I am not surprised by the way that This author responded to his anti-war a speech. Most conservatives did not want to give any African-American full liberty to vote and to be desegregated in society. Martin Luther does bring up Slavery which was not that long ago. African-American’s could not vote or be involved with government affairs. But now a Black man who is criticizing the conservative government during this time gets criticized on how his Movement of liberty is “dead: the revolution is unborn.” 

For so long the US wanted to bring democracy to other countries, but in a government that can’t even let a black woman go to college just because of her skin color. The US was so hypocritical to their “values.” Violence created protest all of over the world and in DC. Sylvan Fox wrote an article in New York Times talking about them. Many American’s were losing faith in their government. Fox wrote “America you are sick and [she] wants to comfort you.. you are poisoned by Racism.” Many American saw the Hypocrisy that the US was using with other countries to get rid of communism. Vietnam is a country born on the values of The American Revolution. If there wasn’t a problem with communism during that time there wouldn’t have really been a war. But, since Communism was the main threat to “Democracy” The US had to start a unnecessary war when the US doesn’t even have their own government together when it came to African-Americans. Many Americans just wanted peace and not to be involved with foreign affairs. 

In Conclusion, Americans were very skeptical of the necessity of the Vietnam War and the involvement of the US. Even though Americans wanted democracy there was not much in the American Government at that time. Martin Luth King wanted to wanted to expose the lies told in the media. Bring up important issues like slavery and the rights of many African Americans that were being taken away, which still took place during that time. The US was the main power of industrialization and capitalism. They wanted to worry about their own agenda then actually worrying about any government that they rebuilt.



 250,000 WAR PROTESTERS STAGE PEACEFUL RALLY IN WASHINGTON: A RECORD ...

By JOHN HERBERSSpecial to The New York Times

New York Times (1923-Current file); Nov 16, 1969;

ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times with Index

pg. 1



2 Dr. King's 'Dislocation' Plan---Can He Really Bring It Off?

Buckley, William F, Jr

Los Angeles Times (1923-Current File); Aug 21, 1967;

ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Los Angeles Times

pg. A5

3 Protests Across Country Close Weekend of Tribute to Dr. King: Flurry ...

By SYLVAN FOX



ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times with Index

pg. 19





w



