Devastated Students



My kid brother at the age of 11 was bullied and mistreated constantly at his elementary school. He came home crying with a busted nose and yelling out he never wanted to go back to school anymore because of what kids at school did to him daily. My parents and I were very disappointed on how the school factuality handled the situation of my brother being bullied, on which they only suspended those kids for 2 days and that was it. No surprise, those kids were still bullying my brother, and this led to my parents switching him schools and sending him elsewhere. This still ended up being the same situation weeks later. Even other kids my brother made friends with at his new school were also in the mix of being bullied daily as well.

According to a online survey Stomp out Bullying Prevention website, “5.4 million students stay home on any given day because they’re afraid of being bullied.” And more youth violence occurs on school grounds as opposed to on the way to school. “So forth with playground statistics- every 7 minutes a child is bullied. Adult intervention is 4% Peer intervention is 11% and No intervention is 85%”. 

Therefore, how much can a kid take before it’s to late ? kids that suffer from bullying in schools are affected throughout their childhoods. 

As for my brother, while going through the trauma of being bullied, he always had a long face and was depressed. It really took him about 4 years to open up and get involved into school activities. For what I know he hasn’t had a issue of being bullied again. 

In 2015, according to a survey on National Center for Education Statistics, about 21 percent of students ages 12-18 reported being bullied at school during the school year. Of students ages 12-18, about 13 percent reported that they were made fun of, called names, or insulted; 12 percent reported being the subject of rumors; 5 percent reported that they were pushed, shoved, tripped, or spit on; and 5 percent reported being excluded from activities on purpose. Additionally, 4 percent of students reported being threatened with harm, 3 percent reported that others tried to make them do things they did not want to do, and 2 percent reported that their property was destroyed by others on purpose.

According to the U.S Department of Health and Human services, kids who suffer from being bullied experience negative physical, school, and mental issues. They experience depression, anxiety, increased feelings of sadness, loneliness, changes in sleep and eating patterns, loss of interest in activities they used to enjoy, and a decrease in academic ability. On a very small number of bullied children might become violent, A study shown 12 of 15 school shooting cases in the 1990’s, the shooters had a history of being bullied. 

A report on the Department of Education, found that kids that suffer from being bullied have a higher risk of suicide, however the reasons why a person may be at risk of suicide are extremely complicated. Also in relations to the campus, “when bullying continues and a school doesn’t take action, the entire school climate and culture can be negatively affected. This impacts on student learning and engagement that negatively develops, fear and disrespect to the environment, students experiencing difficulty learning, students feeling insecure, disliking school, and students start to become feeling that teachers and staff have little control and don’t care about them.”. 

“When a kid is bullied, many parents say they feel angry, frustrated and helpless,” says Stephanie Pappas, contributor of Live Science, “In the news everyday, a poor, poor child is committing suicide over this,”. 

“Kids are bullied because they are creative and intelligent, are good at what they do, and physical features that track tension, every illness or disability, different religion or culture believes, a specific racial group, and gender,” says Sherry Gordon a bowling prevention advocate.

“As schools become safer, students are better able to thrive academically and socially,” U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan said. “The Department, along with our federal partners and others, has been deeply involved in the fight against bullying in our nation’s schools.”

There are three types of bullying: physical, relational (or social) and verbal. Bullying of any type can occur anywhere and to any student. Research shows that students who are bullied are more likely to struggle in school and skip class. They are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, be depressed, and are at higher risk of suicide, according to the U.S. Department of education.

A report by stopbullying.gov, Electronic bullying or cyberbullying involves primarily verbal aggression (e.g., threatening or harassing electronic communications) and relational aggression (e.g., spreading rumors electronically). Electronic bullying or cyberbullying can also involve property damage resulting from electronic attacks that lead to the modification, dissemination, damage, or destruction of a youth’s privately stored electronic information.

“Although research is consistent that traditional bullying and harassment is more prevalent, experts note that technology-based bullying and harassment may be more distressing to victims because online hassers have the ability to post pictures or videos, anonymously to widespread audiences; the aggression can reach targets at any time of the day and night, including their homes; more people join may see or join in the harassment’ and youth may have difficulty removing negative content or stopping the harassment once it is online, according to a report of 1 June 2015,  “The Role of Technology in Peer Harassment: Does it Amplify Harm for Youth?”. 

Luckily my brother wasn’t the one to take his own life away of being bullied, as for other students, they suffered and took their own lives. So how much can a kid take before it’s to late? it’s only a matter of time for them to take their own lives. 



















Works Cited



















https://nobullying.com/bullying-help-usa/



https://www.stopbullying.gov/media/facts/index.html

  



