
                                    
                               Skin color shouldn’t dictate your future

     There is many cases in which colored people get bullied, they seem to get treated differently and also seen as different people as if they did not belong in this world. Many people say that they shouldn't be treated equally due to their color and by their color people seem to judge and say they are bad people just because of their color. In 2010 LICRA which is an organization that stands for international League against racism made two ad’s and also hose two ad’s have a strong background on fighting against racism. This advertising makes people think on how our society is showing us that racism is still going on in the world. It appeals to logos because it appeals to a person due to having them think logically. 
     LICRA wants to raise awareness about how much racisms there and is still occuring to this point. People can start of by making jokes that are racisms and some people may take them offensively but others will go on with the jokes. LICRAS goal is to bring people's attentions and surprising them with the issue of racism. They created an advertisement which shows us on how some born baby’s, which the colored baby is surrounded by white babies and a bright room and that can also tell us that it is a bright room with a lot of white to tells us that white people have the power. and still seem to get criticized because they are a different color.
      The baby girl seems to have a sad face due to how she is dressed as a made which makes think and also tell us that they think colored people are slaves to others. The seems to be a mexican baby due to what she is wearing, showing us that the baby should worry about her future because the dressed her up as a slave and it looks like her childhood is taken away from her already because she's considered a slave. There is two other babies next to here they are white, but they seem to be good and nothing wrong with them since they are not dressed. This advertisement tell us on how babies future shouldn’t be focused on their color because there is many different looking people around the world and still have a good personality. If your different people just seem to look at you different an think you are a bad person which they are wrong on doing because the color or the look do not matter and does not really say anything about how that person is or on how they live.
      Little kids now and days are the most people that get bullied because of their color. The color shouldn't’ affect them in their future why. Because they will always be that color and they are still human beings that should be treated equal like others. The other ad was a colored boy dressed as a garbage man which that makes us think that they are calling him trash, that he will not be anyone in life. He is surrounded by the other babies which they are white, it makes us the people think that why doesn't the white babies have clothes on or dressed as a character like the colored baby.
      We may think that the white babies and not have clothes because they actually have a future and they are waiting for that future, unlike the colored baby that is dressed and seem to not have a childhood because he is in his place already as practical as a slave which people may look at it as. This is why LICRA is trying to give us a message on how we should not be making other race feel different because they are still human beings. The picture seems to compare the white and colored babies because it shows that they are twice as likely to be unemployed. Colorled applicants are treated less just because of their color. As the kids start growing and going to school they might have a chance to get bullied because of their color.
      There was a girl which seemed to be in elementary school, she talks about how they bullied her just because she was darker. She started to think and say she wasn't pretty but later she got a lot of confidence that she was pretty how people should be thinking about themselves. So everytime they would bully her and tell her she was ugly because of her color, she said she was going to tell them she would just say “i know im pretty im not going to let anyone tell me different”. It is so sad on how even small kids in elementary school seem to bully other just because they are a different color. Before all this racisms.
      Kids before would just play with each other no matter what color or religion the were. Many people think that ever since Trump became president he brought racism back and making everyone hate each other due to them supposedly not being the same. People say trump was the one who brought racisms back and seemed to be an idol for some people so when the people who support him will look at colored people in a ugl and different way. Ever since Trump said he was going to make brown well colored people leave, many kids and people are scared to to leave their family member alone because they are scared they will get deported as hoe trump wants it to be. Trump may say he is not racist but looking on the way he talks about colored people, he is being racist. 
     We all know and think that Trump is a bad president for doing what he is doing because people do not deserve to be treated that way because we are all the same. There is a few people that try to send a message to the Trump supporters who say that we aren't all the same and we should be treated differently because that is not true. All of these ads show logo because it tell us how people feel about racism. Trump seems to see the colored people different so he does treat the different when he shouldn't.
     Also these ads show us that racism affects kids at a young age because now and days for people racisms is something big for them and they can’t seem to accept different colored people. We may think that it can not affect babies or kids at a young age just because they are very young but it can really affect them because they will start getting bullied and b looked at different. These ads open our eyes because is something bad that has been happening around the world. Many parents are scared to take their kids to school due to them having to get bullies or mistreated by people at school. We should ass realize that we are equal and we are human beings, we can do what white or any other colored people can do. We should fight out spot which is being the same and equal like others even if people may think your not. Kids shouldn't be getting effect by this at a early age, people may think is a joke or something but later their kids can end up really hurt due to people being racist and not equal. 


















“40 Of The Most Powerful Social Issue Ads That'll Make You Stop And Think.” Bored Panda, www.boredpanda.com/powerful-social-advertisements/.  
Moazedi, M. Laura. “"Your Skin Color Shouldn't Dictate Your Futu4, moazedi.blogspot.com/2014/06/your-skin-color-shouldnt-dictate-your.html. 
“Little South LA Girl Bullied About Her Dark Skin Now Strikes An Entirely New Pose.” CBS Los Angeles, 14 Apr. 2017, losangeles.cbslocal.com/2017/04/14/little-south-la-girl-bullied-about-her-dark-skin-now-strikes-an-entirely-new-pose/. 
 Desmond- Harris, Jenee . “"All the black and brown people have to leave": Trump's scary impact on how kids think.” Vox, 20 Oct. 2016, www.vox.com/identities/2016/10/20/13319366/donald-trump-racism-bigotry-children-bullying-muslim-mexican-black-immigrant.