Essay One


	Apple is a well-known technology company that stays on top of their game. They are constantly renovating their company products. In a recent ad, they were advertising one of their newest inventions that is tied along to iTunes known as Apple Music. Apple Music is a music streaming app that gives you full access to any song, radio, or playlist on iTunes and allows you to download it to your device so that you can stream it offline.   For this ad, they use famous country and pop artist Taylor Swift. They show her on the treadmill getting ready to begin her workout. Before she began her workout she sighed as she was putting on her earphones and said "Man… I hate cardio" after that she headed to the apple music app on her iPhone and found a workout playlist that was called #gymflow and began to ran. Throughout the commercial it showed her in her own zone running, feeling good, and super into the song. Toward the end of the commercial she fell off the treadmill because she was so distracted and into the music that it took her mind off of her workout. After that it followed with a slogan "distractingly good".
	In this ad Apple used famous country and pop artist, Taylor Swift along with the newest edition done by Apple, the iPhone X to appeal to ethos. Due to the fact that Taylor has had many successes throughout her career from as far back as 2006 such as many number one hits and many Grammy nominations and awards, they knew that she'd be able to persuade the crowd into wanting an iPhone and Apple Music because she has one. The ad shows her having a great time listening to Apple Music on her iPhone while working out. It manipulates the audience into believing that they need an iPhone because that is the only way they could access Apple Music while working out. Taylor being the famous artist she is also gives comfort to the crowd due to the fact that her very own music is on Apple Music. Therefore if it is good enough for her own music to be played on there then it is good enough for you to listen and stream your music on as well. . 
	Apple did this ad to target and appeal to all different types of crowds. The ad definitely touches a wide range of audiences from young teens all the way to adult men. It touches young teens and even grown women because their attention is admittedly grabbed by Taylor's presence on the ad. Taylor's presence grabs female's attention because her music appeals to women, in her music she talks about many thing teens and women can relate to from when she started to now. Many teens listen to her music today and many middle aged women went through their teens years listening to her music which is why her presence can grasp their attention. It can appeal to adult men for two reasons. The first is because she is a pretty and attractive female showing some skin. The second reason is because men would find her falling of the treadmill amusing. Another reason it would appeal to different crowds is because she is a country singer yet singing and listening to hip hop artist Drake's hit “Jump Man”, which would catch attention to those who enjoy hip hop music as well.
 	


They did this commercial for two specific reasons. The first reason was to persuade their audience into thinking apple music is what they need to distract them from cardio. They showed Taylor so into the workout, having a great time while running on the treadmill to make their audience think that if they were to do cardio while using Apple Music they'd feel distracted and enjoy their workout like Taylor. The second reason was to convince their audience that Apple Music was the way to go because they can accompany all of your music needs. According to billboard, Anthony Mandler the director said, "We wanted to capture that feeling that music accompanies every element of your life, and the [Apple Music] service is the backbone of that concept, “At the end of the commercial they were sure to mention that you could access all the music you want and that you could join now and cancel anytime. They informed you with that information to manipulate you. They wanted you to feel like not only will it distracted you from cardio but you can access whatever music you want at any time. However their true intentions were to make you believe that Apple music was a unique music streaming service that is better than all the other competitors out there such as Pandora or Spotify. 
	Apple did not only use Taylor because she was fit but they used her because of her attractiveness. She's pretty and she looked good running in a sports bra and spandex pants. "The very language of today's advertisements is charged with sexuality" (Solomon). As Solomon discussed in his article ad's use sex to sell. Many viewers more than likely didn't realize but this ad is the perfect example of how companies can use sex to sell. Why couldn't Taylor run in the tank top and pants? Why did she have to run with her tank top tied on the side showing her fit stomach? But as Solomon explained in his article sex sells and would have an effect on the audience. Therefore Apple used Taylor to appeal to logic by having her use her sex to try and sell.

In the ad, Apple was sure to have a attention grabbing moment that would affect the audience. That funny yet embarrassing moment was a perfect example of something many people could relate to. Rather it be because they’ve done it themselves or witnessed someone else do it. That example being when Taylor falls off the treadmill which was the climax. The marketing strategies that Apple used which was using a famous celebrity in a form of humor mixed with sexuality was what helped make the ad go viral on social media and their sales go up. According to Ad week, humor extends when it comes to marketing and that was found on a study back in 2004, “The connection between humor and viral spread was documented as far back as 2004 in a study reported in the Journal of Advertising Research. It identified a number of the motivations, attitudes and behaviors of people that pass along e-mails and found that most of the forwarded messages involved humor” (Hurley). According to Apple Music’s head of content, Larry Jackson, "To really get an idea that was simple, informative and funny with hooks is really like writing a song… With an artist that's got 73 million followers on Instagram, that's bigger than NBC, CBS and Fox and the viewership of prime time combined ".The head of content himself said that humor with a hook was their idea for the ad. With that being said placing the ad in a social context was clearly what Apple did. They made the ad make its first appearance via social media with the intentions of having the Apple Music ad make an impact on the audience due to its humorous, relatable, and unforgettable moments that people would remember and talk about.




Needless to say, the ad was a success. Apple Music streaming went up, the song featured on the ad which was Drake’s “Jump Man”, and the number of plays of the #gymflow went up. “iTunes sales of the song featured in the ad, Drake's "Jump Man," are up 431 percent globally. And the number of plays for Apple Music's curated #gymflow playlist shown in the commercials has grown 325 percent, making it the No. 5 playlist of the week” (Billboard). Apple has a very tough competition with the other music streaming companies such as Pandora and Spotify but their unique marketing techniques will help separate them from the rest making them the most successful. 



Works Cited


"Drake's ITunes Sales Shot Up 431 Percent After Taylor Swift's Memorable Apple Music Ad."Billboard,
www.billboard.com/articles/news/7325346/taylor-swift-apple-ad-drake-sales-itunes.
Hurley, Dennis. "Humor, Marketing and the Internet." - Adweek, Adweek, 2 May 2010, www.adweek.com/brand-marketing/humor-marketing-and-internet-102237/.
officialbeatsmusictv. "TAYLOR vs. TREADMILL." YouTube, YouTube, 1 Apr. 2016, www.youtube.com/watch?v=fK_zwl-lnmc.




