How Do Key Issues In Education Shape Us?   	Education is a big part in our communities, whether it’s K-12 or bigger things such as college. We were taught that education was the key to every door and how it’s important to have a good one for a better lifestyle. It’s very important we are surrounded by good people and safe communities. Are there things that we should be concern about, perhaps as does the education system serve the student population well or can it get some improvement? Or are students getting classes that meet requirements for good colleges? Maybe it’s even outside literacy such as texting our friends or our Facebook posts that influence and affects our literacy in school. After much thought, could it have been all of them that are key issues in education? How does education really shape us?

In the report “Fremont High School” by Jonathan Kozol he interviewed school staff and students. A lot of people attending the high school weren’t satisfied, not getting the education they felt they needed, and just felt like prisoners. Time management at the school was terrible, over crowded classrooms,rodents, no air conditioning, unsanitary bathrooms with limited restrooms, because they had less then 15 working toilets which meant only one or two worked, also meant long lines. “You’re not allowed to use the bathroom during, lunch which is 30 minutes period. The only time you are allowed to use it is between your classes.” quotes Mierya who was interviewed by Kozol. Kozol mentions in his report how they only get 15 minutes to walk to their classes. So you can imagine how hard it was for students. Mierya continues with “if you have one class at one end of the building and your next class happens to be way down at the other end, you don’t have time to use the bathroom and still get to class before its starts.” She goes on how it’s embarrassing when you have to explain your needs and excuse to use the restroom. Restrooms are not clean nor have the supplies they need.

Another problem at the high school was the unnecessary classes that were given to the students. “A tall black student .. hoped to be a social worker or a doctor but was programmed into “sewing class”this year. She also had to take another course called “life skills” .. a very basic course.” says Kozol. These students were asked why they have the courses then or why they choice them?  A lot of the students responded with they were told those classes were requirements or those were the only courses they had available. On top of that, many students repeated the courses which they felt was stupid and unnecessary. These students had goals to go to college, but they felt hopeless when they didn’t have the guidance or classes. They wanted AP classes instead of classes that wouldn’t help them pursue their careers. Last but not least, the library is closed more than half the year for student testing. It’s not good because the library has all types of sources such as access to the internet, books, computers, a quiet study place etc. “According to the school librarian, the library is closed more than a quarter of the year.” states Kozol. They end the report with Mierya saying “why is it .. that students who do not need what we need get so much more? And we who need it so much get so much less?” Kozol responded to her saying he’s been asking that question for 40 years now and they end it with her saying she didn’t think there was an answer. That’s a sad way to end a report in my opinion. In order to succeed, you need a good learning environment. Something these students weren’t given leading to no success nor improvement in academics.

 	With that being said, in the report “Finland’s School Success What America Keeps Ignoring” by Anu Partanen, she discusses how and why these kids in Finland are getting good grades and scores. “.. recent years Finnish students have been turning in some of the highest test scores in the world.” quotes Anu. They recieve good scores due to less homework, creative learning activities and tests here and there. In America students seem to fail because they are assigned so much, so they basically just want to get over it. If less homework and assignments are assigned to students they will want to learn more and take the time to actually study. Sahlberg’s, a director at the Finnish education,  said there isn’t a secret to success, but only ways to improve the education. He also said this isn’t a competition, but  America sees it differently. That makes Finland feel uncomfortable. It’s possible to change education, because at one point Finland was bad too. But, they tried new teaching formats and it was a success to them and they encourage other countries too. Anything is possible and so is change, but it takes a crowd to make a change.

        	 Overall, key issues in education shape us in different ways. Whether it has to deal with how education serves the student population, race and ethnicity or simply how we talk to our friends and family. We try to be more understanding and accepting when it comes to education, because at the end we do it for a better future. We do it for the kids of the future; we were the kids of the future. So much has changed over the years, we are accepting of so much. Things will only get better from here.