Social networking sites are great ways to connect and meet new people from across the globe. But, many people think that it can be a substitute for a real and interactive social life. From Facebook to Instagram, people need to remember that there is a huge world to explore outside of their own home. There is facetime and many forms of video chat, but real contact does not need internet connection and a screen. Many problems that arise could include; no face to face contact with others, not knowing if the person you are talking to is real, and the acceptance of staying home over going outside to interact with others.

First, the ability of face to face conversation is almost impossible when talking with someone online. This ability is a huge factor when speaking to another person in anyone’s daily life. Being able to see what emotion a friend is showing or the way they are standing can help in identifying if someone is mad, sarcastic, or sad. Being able to speak to someone face to face can help in creating long lasting friendships, this would be almost impossible if people were continuously online.

Second, it is difficult to be sure that the person being spoken to is real. There are countless examples of people being tricked into thinking the user they speak to is real. In reality, these strangers could be completely opposite of who they claim to be. This can have an impact on a person’s life and can lead to trust issues at worst cases. It is safer to meet others in real life, where it is easier to learn more about the person who is being spoken to.

Third, many accept that it is better to stay home and chat with online friends than going into the real world. This belief has infected many young minds in this day and age. Studies have shown that going outdoors and interacting with the outside world can help in health and making better life choices in the future. The world today has accepted the fact that it is okay to stay inside all day. But, going outside can help in the long run and should be taught to the youth more effectively. 

In conclusion, sites like Facebook and Instagram can help in many ways. But, having the ability to go outside and connect with complete strangers should be taken up more often. By seeing others face to face can help the world become a better place, since people learn compassion through meeting others. People need to remember that there is a massive world to explore. Lastly, put down and power off those devices and go out into the world, who knows what adventures will open in the future.	









