Age of Reason Assignment



Thomas Paine's Age of Reason can be classified as alot of things. Officially, the pamphlet was entitled 'The Age of Reason: Being an Investigation of True and Fabulous Theology,' but it has generally just been called 'The Age of Reason.' As noted, the pamphlet was an attack on classical Christianity. Paine, who was a deist, argued that the Bible consisted of mythology and had value as a piece of literature, but was not divinely inspired. He argued God's revelation was not supernatural in nature but could only be understood through reason. He also attacked the Church as being corrupt and too institutionalized. Paine’s own position is made clear from the start. He believes in one God, and, like all Newtonians, he professes the Deistic hope for happiness in another world because, contrary to the Calvinistic doctrines that he detests, Deism affords a happiness not found in other religions. Paine states explicitly that he does not believe in the creeds professed by any churches, for his own mind is his tabernacle. All national institutions of faith and dogma have been instituted to rule over the lives of people, he opines. 

Many people can feel different emotions after reading Thomas Paine's Age of Reason. Some feel anger, some feel confused, and some feel as if they have seen Christianity in a new light. I personally don't feel any of these things. Even tough Paine makes good points, his beliefs are not going to stop my own or change what I believe in. Everyone has their own viewpoint of many things, his being religion. I know what I believe. Although that was not my first thought when I began reading Age of Reason. The first thing that came to mind was does he know how many people this would upset in the current time? Even back then people did not like the fact he just out right attacks their beliefs head on. He even uses vulgar language to get the points across I did feel angry for the people he aimed for. To have someone tell you that your beliefs are nothing more than just beliefs. That your God was just a man. They had a right to be upset. As some people say nowadays, who are you to tell me what to believe in. Trying to encourage your religion his being deism, to people who are already faithful to one usually isn't that way to go. So yes I did feel angry, but only for those he attacked.