 Assignment 

Is Faith an Absence of Thought?

Puritan:

	Faith is complete trust in someone or something and a strong belief in God or in the doctrines of a religion. Some may say it is not evidence based therefore it lacks thought. The Bible is evidence of God. It is necessary to have a close relationship with God where you are putting your full trust in him. By having full trust in God, one is able to redeem their sins. Faith is not having a lack of thought, it is trusting in God’s word and understanding your pre-destination. God has a planned life for all of us and all we have to do is trust in him and do what we are destined to do. Puritans put much thought into their faith because it is our life. Faith is not having all knowledge of something, it is just putting your trust in something or someone. God’s word is a promise and to believe in it is not a lack of critical thinking. In fact, almost all of us puritans have read the bible. We go to school and our taught to read so that we are capable of reading the bible. Our religion has much thought into it. We can prove our religion and faith by our life here on Earth. We go through life and see that God’s word is relevant and trusting. Events that occur daily are due to God’s plan. Just because one cannot see someone, God, does not mean by having faith in him you are irrational. There are many things one cannot see but they have been “proven” true. 







Enlightenment Thinker:



	Of course faith is an absence of thought. Faith is not something that can be proven, therefore to put your faith in something is being irrational. Without God being present on Earth, how does one know his word is true? When you critically think in relation to faith and church, you begin to question things due to nothing being able to be proven. Some may say they have faith due to their feelings and “experiences”. Well, you cannot base something entirely off of feelings and you cannot prove your experience occurred because of God himself. You must think and prove it first before jumping to say that it was God. This is not something that is possible to do. Science cannot prove God which means it cannot prove one’s faith in him. The enlightened way of thinking is the truth and to believe something that is merely just a superstition is irrational. Truth must be based off of your own consciousness and thought process, not from a reading that cannot be explained.  For one to have faith, they are detaching themselves from thinking and strictly going off of their feelings. If you think about faith in relation to God, you are putting your trust in something that you know cannot be proven to be true. This is an absence of thought because it does not make sense. Enlightened thinkers do not necessary mark God as someone who is fictional, but just the “miracles” and words from the bible that cannot be proven. We just use our thinking to be rational about God and his work. 



“IS FAITH AN ABSENCE OF THOUGH





