Thematic Comparison

Most authors use their life experience as a background for their short stories. Catherine Chopin was born in St. Louis, Missouri in the USA, on February 8, 1850. She was the second child of Thomas O’Flaherty of county Galway, Ireland, and Eliza Faris of St Louis. Nathaniel Hawthorne was also an American born on July 4, 1804 in Salem, Massachusetts. The author’s experiences of lifestyle, societal roles, and oppression have shaped their writing. 

The two authors’ social lives were almost the same. Catherine Chopin lost her father when she was four years old, and her childhood was deeply influenced by her great-grandmother, grandmother, and her mother, and the women from the French Creole pioneers. She spent some time with her family’s mulatto slaves. Few years later Catherine lost her brother and her grandmother. Losing her beloved ones, Catherine had a great deal of trauma.  Time passed by, Catherine Chopin had an active social life and travelled to so many places. Nathaniel Hawthorne spent his time in Maine as a youth and like Catherine Chopin. Her fierce feminist nature is 

evident in her female characters and their reactions. Likewise, Nathaniel lost his father when he was four years old and grew up with his mother and was surrounded by women. Nathaniel was calm, and a little isolated. He was very interested in the Salem Witch Trial Era. Most of his writings were centered around that time period and the secrecy of the area surrounding the people.

The social roles of each author can be seen in their writing. Chopin was writing as a woman during a time when women could not express their desires. In her story, the main character was not able to express her desires of happiness after hearing her husband had died. Also, society’s role of obligation is seen in Hawthorne's story. All of the people who have an obligation to the church and the town have to go in secret to worship. This secrecy upsets Young Goodman Brown when he discovers these people are just working out of obligation. 

Each author expresses the oppression they experienced. For Catherine Chopin, the oppression was what the people had on women, what they were expecting her to react when she was informed of her husband’s death. They expected her to cry or be sad, but it was not the case for her. For Nathaniel Hawthorne, the oppression was on non-religion people. People were not tolerant of those who did not follow the corporate religion. 

	In conclusion, it is evident that good literature comes from the author’s life because, as you can see in every paragraph there a personal story behind all of their literature. Authors do not write about someone else’s story or story they heard about but always about what they have experienced.

