 The eighteenth century was a time of Enlightenment and was also known as The Age of Reason. Thomas Paine’s The Age of Reason was interpreted in many ways and people had a wide variety of emotions felt after reading it. Religion is a very precious topic that affects people in ways that cant be described. When Paine states, “My Mind is my own church”, he upset a lot of people. Also, this made many re think their lives in the church. This line from Paine made me think about my life as well. It sent thoughts racing through my mind when thinking of all the different churches that do the same thing. By same thing, I mean collecting money and having the most power it can over the people. In other words, Paine states that this was corrupt and holding back society from its true potential. I personally do not agree one hundred percent but can empathize with his points made about the church. Also, Paine still believes in God but just does not believe in a foundational building or place such as a Church. To an extent this is true, but I believe that a church is meant in a way to bring people together to profess their faith without persecution. Paine later writes, “It is from the Bible that man has learned cruelty, rapine, and murder; for the belief of a cruel God makes a cruel man. This in itself did not have the same effect as his other points made throughout The Age of Reason. This angered me slightly because I do not believe our God is a cruel God. There are many lessons to be learned in the Bible that are helpful to mankind. Lesson such as what is right and wrong are portrayed throughout all chapters of the scripture in every church. This goes for almost undoubtedly all religions and churches that are attacked by Thomas Paine. Fear is a big emotion that also raced through my mind after reading The Age of Reason. Fear of thinking differently than a dedicated Catholic should be was on my mind and thoughts after reading Paine’s writing. Personally, Guilt is one of the main emotions I would express as having after considering all f the possible reasons why Paine wrote this. Empathizing with his work made me feel guilty because I know as a Christian I should never question God’s work. All in all, The Age of Reason sent many different emotions through my mind and that was his ultimate goal. 



	



