



	While reading Thomas Paine’s Age of Reason, I found myself experiencing a few different emotions. The excerpt is broken into the following three parts: his profession of faith, his opinion on the meaning of revelation, and his opinion of the Christian view of theology compared to his own. Therefore, I will be responding with my thoughts and emotions in regards to the three given excerpts.

	Throughout the first excerpt, Paine makes a bold statement by claiming that he believes in God but not in the way that Puritans of the time do. Instead, he rejects the ideas of all established deities of all religions and makes the statement, “My mind is my own church.” This statement, in my opinion, is extremely blunt and controversial to what I believe personally. Analyzing his opinion though, it is easy to see that he does not claim this without any prepared thinking. It is his clarity of thought and reasoning that makes me respect his opinion. I can imagine that any religious minded person at the time would have felt attacked and even angry with his thinking. 

	Throughout the second excerpt, Paine discusses what he believes is the definition of the word “revelation.” He states that it means, “something communicated immediately from God to man.” He then goes about the rest of the excerpt explaining why he believes that all religions do not have a sense of actual revelation. Rather, he claims that each religion’s experience with their deity is considered “hearsay” from person to person more than anything else. I, once again, have a hard time accepting the idea that he poses for the true meaning of revelation. However, I continue to respect his ideas as they are thought out and have reasoning behind them. I think, from a Christian point of view, to be able to agree or disagree with his opinions in the second excerpt, one must fully understand his idea of revelation and then compare that to their own. 

	Finally, in the last excerpt, Paine begins to compare his Deist theology to the Christian theology. He explains that the world was created by God and then that world was left for man to “provide his own comforts.” He also explains that man’s discovery of scientific principals is the only real proof of God’s existence. Paine scrutinizes Christians for denying the principals of science. He states, “It is fraud of the Christian system to call the sciences human inventions…Man cannot make principals; he can only discover them.” I personally agree with this statement. I believe that science and its principals are set and cannot be manipulated. I believe that it is justified for Paine to condemn anyone for denying such sound principals.

	Though it is hard to read and personally agree with what Thomas Paine writes, I believe that everything in all of the excerpts is approached from a logical viewpoint rather than a hateful one. He supports all of his beliefs with definitive principals and ideas. That, in my opinion, is to be respected fully.