 	

 

	In the world we live in, seeing a person without an electronic device near them is a rare sighting. These devices give access to social networking sights such as Facebook, Instagram, and many others that keep us insightful on what is going on around us.  Although the older generation thinks social media is ruining millennials, there are many positive features to having this tool within an arm’s reach.  Not only does social media help us with our social life, but also gives us the access to endless amount of information. Staying connected with others, allowing access to meeting others and having any information at your fingertips has impacted me the most when it comes to social media. 

	Staying connected with others is a hard task; although, it becomes even harder when you move thousands of miles away. Moving off to college, I personally see the struggle to keep in touch with others. I was extremely worried about losing touch with friends and family when I moved off to school, but social media has played a huge role in me being able to talk to the people I love almost every day. This aspect of social media has impacted me very positively. 

	When I came to college, meeting new people was a worry of mine, but also a mission. I wanted to find my friends that were going to be my family, at my home away from home. Over the summer before I even stepped on campus, I was able to connect with others through social media that went to my university already; because of this, I decided to join a sorority and met my friends that will be with me for a lifetime. Without social media, and the ability for those girls to reach out to me over the summer, I would not be having the incredible college experience I am having now. 

	The last positive thing social media has given me, is the ability to have any piece information whenever I desire. Information is power, is a commonly and overused phrase, but is overwhelmingly correct. The thought of having any information at the drop of a dime, can be eerie, but the good out ways the bad. Social media had many outlets and features to help make day to day challenges, become easier; An example of this through my experience, is the access of information on the university's Instagram. It post anything and everything we as students need to know. This gives me the ability to be proactive and prepared for whatever may be coming my way. 		

	Social media is the center of our world today. It has many faults, but also many positives. Social media helps enhance our ability to do well in this world. Although some may not agree with my stance on the use of social media, we as people of this generation and those to come will be impacted greatly by this game changer. 

	