ETS “Age of Reason” Assignment



	Thomas Paine does not sugar coat any of his strong ideas about religion and the church in his work Age of Reason. He does not avoid controversial topics; he hits them dead on and disproves every single one. I am a believer in Jesus Christ, so many emotions overflowed my head as I read this work. My emotions while reading through Paine’s work includes curiosity, upset, and understanding.

	The major emotion I had throughout the entire book was curiosity. I am very strong in my faith as a Christian, but I am open to hearing other point of view. I am not open to other religions for myself, but I will listen to other’s ideas and respect them. Paine does make some good points that make me take a step back and think deeply about my faith. I do not question my faith, but I do dig deeper into aspects that I do not completely understand about my religion that he brings up. His points make sense and gain the interest to people that need physical proof of their faith. They want to believe in things that they can wrap their minds around without having to rely on the supernatural to explain it. One thing that really made me curious is when Paine mentions that the story of Jesus being born from a virgin is second hand accounts. The story is not derived straight from Mary and Joseph, it is all passed down from person to person. Also, the Bible is written by words that have been passed down. Even though I still believe in these things he is trying to disprove, this part of his book makes me wonder what all was lost, or misinterpreted while being passed down and written.

	Paine’s caused an uproar during his time, and after until present day. He makes people feel attacked when he is not attacking them personally. He is just disproving the main beliefs of popular religions. The phrase that fires people up the most is when Paine says that his mind is his own church. This causes a great upset because all the religions mentioned are based off of a church, and it is a part of people’s daily life. Even I kind of felt upset or uneasy about Paine mentioning church as within himself, because when I think of church I think of going to a physical place and gathering with others to praise the lord. This is very selfish, because he sees himself good enough to have a mind that acts like God to others.

	Overall, I am glad that I read Thomas Paine’s Age of Reason because it gave me another view point on religion. This work helped me to better understand this time and the enlightenment ideas that were created. This was one of the most controversial and powerful works that I have ever read. I really enjoyed how it challenged me to really dig deeper into my religion by trying to disprove his points. His work made me feel curious and distress throughout. Paine does a good job of causing an uproar and makes people really question their religion and give enlightenment ideas a chance. 