Thomas Paine has been one of my biggest inspirations for a large majority of my life. His writings have always inspired me to not be afraid of what other people think about your opinions and beliefs. “Age of Reason” is recently new to me, and while reading it, I experienced quite a few different emotions. I still felt the same warming sensation of admiration that I’ve always felt for Paine, and even though I don’t follow the ways of Deism, I felt a nearly overwhelming sense of satisfaction in the words that Paine was writing. I am a firm believer in “sticking it to the man” and knowing the courage and bravery it took for Paine to write and publish these words and thoughts back in that time period fills me up with pride and satisfaction. 

I admire Thomas Paine for several reasons. He was brave and unashamed of himself and his beliefs. His intelligence and respect for other human beings and their rights sparked a rebellion which helped give America the independence that we have today. I admire that he took a risk by publishing his writings under his real name and not a secret identity, but still only used them as a way to 

inspire people to make a change for themselves, not for personal fame. He believed in human equality and freedom of speech and freedom of religion. It is hard to read “Age of Reason” and not experience admiration, inspiration, and respect. Even though I don’t necessarily agree with Deism, I’m inspired by the time he took to really grasp what he believed and gain enough intelligence to tell people about it and let them know that there are other options of faith a religion to believe in. He cared about the people, and he cared about his country. 

Reading “Age of Reason” truly filled my heart with hope and pride. It brings me satisfaction to know that someone, even back in the Enlightenment era, used their voice to make a change. I feel hopeful that since we still study his works today, it will give people in America today the courage to speak out their opinions in a respectful way and make more great changes in the world. I am proud to know that people like Thomas Paine still exist and want to speak out. Paine didn’t conform to society and he expressed his thoughts and opinions on religion to the world while still respecting others and their beliefs. I have hope that many of the people in my generation have the kind of courage that Thomas Paine had and are planning to use it for great things in the near future. 