Effects of Life Experiences on Writing

Early life occurrences can affect the insight of the writer’s works. A writer’s background can play a tremendous role in the making of his/her stories. Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid use their early-life experiences, their position on the conflict, and the emotional connections they have in their writing. In “The Story of an Hour,” by Kate Chopin and “Girl,” by Jamaica Kincaid, it is evident how they use early-life experiences, their position based on their experience on the subject, and emotional connection to bring life to their short stories. 

Kate Chopin struggled with how relationships and marriages occurred during that time period (what time period? Be specific). This is because as a child she struggled with relationships due to the loss of her father and her friend during the war. In “The Story of an Hour,” Mrs. Mallard dies of “joy that kills’ (16). In this incident, she choses (changed to make it present tense) death while rejoicing over a marriage with her husband. Jamaica Kincaid struggled with the relationship with her mother, because she was a female. When Kincaid’s brothers were born, her mother basically abandoned her because she only paid attention to her brothers. Kincaid shows this in “Girl” when she explains how a woman should act and tend to men. 

The positon of the writer based on their experience, plays a role within the creation of their writing. Chopin and Kincaid use their background of their childhood throughout their writing. Chopin was raised only by her mother, because her father passed away when she was five. This forms her view of being single and not wanting to be attentive to her husband in “The Story of an Hour.” She was influenced by her mother being widowed. In the story, Mrs. Mallard obviously does not  care much about her husband, she rejoices over his death. She does not need a male figure in her life. Kincaid was also raised by only her mom and she was very close to her mom. In “Girl,” Kincaid makes a list of what a woman should do for her husband, but also what she should not do.

Personal connections to a situation shape literary works, because it is easier for one to write about something he/she has experienced rather than make it up based off of nothing. Chopin is connected to her work because of how she views womens role in society. In Chopin’s story, she shows there is no connection between her and her husband. It is almost as if they are put together because of the finical ways back then. If one has money, he/she was good to marry. In “Girl,” Kincaid speaks of how one should be treated, man or women. She declares what is okay and what is not. She writes of this connection because when she was younger, she was frowned upon because she was a girl. Her family neglected her, because her mother gave birth to sons, which were always looked at as better. 

When someone goes through something traumatic, it affects them in so many ways. Being a writer, it can lead them to write about personal experiences and dwell on those things. Chopin and Kincaid’s writings really reflected their own personal stories; this is how it reflects and shapes literature. Each author apart from Chopin and Kincaid will do this as well. Their works are based on their own personal connections and experiences to their past. 











Works Cited

“Kate Chopin: The Awakening, The Storm, stories, biography.” KateChopin.org,

.



“North Shore Community College welcomes you to Hawthorne in Salem.” Welcome to

Nathaniel Hawthorne in Salem, www.hawthorneinsalem.org/.

