Many writers never know what to write or how to write their thoughts out. Many use their lives to help create amazing stories. Some writers use Kate Chopin, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Jamaica Kincaid to help influence their writing. These writers used their live experiences to create amazing works and gave us the knowledge we use in English today. Through their background information, writing throughout experience creating different works showing how they are connected. 

	Kate Chopin was born in 1850 in St. Louis, Missouri. Her early life had great deal of trauma such as her father being killed in a railroad accident, her half brother who died from typhoid fever which is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi bacteria during the Civil War and her great grandmother who died in 1863 according to katechopin.org. In 1870, Kate and Oscar Chopin married, then had six kids between 1871 to 1879 provide by katechopin.org. Unfortunately, Oscar Chopin died from malaria leaving Kate Chopin as a widow and raising six children by herself.  In 1889, Chopin wrote her first novel, “At Fault,” which mirror Chopin as the main character who was Catholic widow in her thirties since she became a widow near that age. “The Story of an Hour,” also is familiar Kate Chopin life due to the main character Mrs. Mallard husband supposable dying in a railroad incident just like her father. Kate Chopin writes in an older language using metaphors to help give the theme to her stories. According to katechopin.org, Chopin died in August 1904 due to a cerebral hemorrhage. In all, she wrote 400 journal articles, at least 60 books and 160 PhD dissertation from what was provided on katechopin.org. 

	Way before Kate Chopin influenced the literary world there was Nathaniel Hawthorne. Nathaniel Hawthorne was born July 4, 1804 in Salem, Massachusetts. Based on historyofmassachusetts.org, the events of 1692 in Salem haunted Hawthorne due to his great-grandfather being a judge in the witchcraft trails. Hawthorne attended Bowdoin College in Maine from 1821 to 1824 and he decided to add a “w” to his surname due to research into his family history while at college as stated on the site hawthorneinsalem.org. “Young Goodman Brown” was published in 1835 which connects Hawthorne views on what he saw during the Salem witchcraft trails and how people thought during that time. His novel “The Blithedale Romance,” was written on his experience joining the transcendentalist utopian community at Brook Farm. Hawthorne is mainly known best for his four major romances of 1850-60 including The Scarlet Letter, The House of the Seven Gables, The Blithedale Romance, and The Marble Faun. Nathaniel Hawthorne used his past and present to give us the best works of literature today that many still read. 

	Even though Nathaniel died 1864, he left a legacy for those to follow his footstep to follow their passion in life just like Jamaica Kincaid. Elaine Potter Richardson aka Jamaica Kincaid was born on May 1949 in the Caribbean Island of Antigua. Kincaid was taught how to read by her mom until her brothers were born as reported by blackpast.org. In 1965 after she turned 16, Kincaid left Antigua to work as an au pair in Scarsdale, New York also reported by blackpast.org. Then in 1974 she began to write for the New Yorker Column, “Talk of the Town” according to blackpast.org. Joining the New Yorker column is what helped her create her first book by gathering stories from the New Yorker between 1978 and 1979. She called it “At the Bottom of the River.” By the age of 24, Elaine Potter changed her name to Jamaica Kincaid to give her the anonymity needed to write about intensely personal material and to identify herself with a specific region of the Americas.  “Girl,” is one of the short stories from “At the Bottom of the River” and it is a short story based on what she saw growing up in Antigua. The themes in “At the Bottom of the River” includes betrayal, loss, division and all the resulting from colonial exploitation and the disempowerment of women. All ten short stories come from her childhood, which is why Kincaid had to change her name.

	Kate Chopin, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Jamaica Kincaid helped the literary world by giving us amazing pieces of work to study, to understand and to connect it with us. “The Story of an Hour, Young Goodman Brown and Girl” are amazing reading experiences for many in the world that did not know the connection to the writers. Every one of these writers put a part of their lives into their stories without us knowing how it connected unless we would know their background. Not only did they create different stories during different periods of lives, but it connect to history, Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote his stories mainly off the background of the Salem witch trails due to his life being raised in that part of history. Chopin, Hawthorne, and Kincaid have put an impact on the literary world.  			













Work Cited

 Brooks, Rebecca B. Nathaniel Hawthorne's Best Novels & Books. History of Massachusetts, 	29 Mar. 2017, historyofmassachusetts.org/best-nathaniel-hawthorne-novels-books/. Accessed 7 February 2018 

Clark, Pamela. Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, Stories.	KateChopin.org, 2005, www.katechopin.org/biography/. Accessed 7 February 2018

DerSarkissian, Carol. Typhoid Fever. WebMD, 22 July 2017,			www.webmd.com/a-to-z-guides/typhoid-fever#1. Accessed 7 February 2018

Encyclopedia, New World. Nathaniel Hawthorne. Nathaniel Hawthorne - New World 	Encyclopedia, 11 Feb. 2014,	www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Nathaniel_Hawthorne. Accessed 7 February 2018

Quintana, Maria L. Jamaica Kincaid. Kincaid, Jamaica. The Black Past: Remembered and Reclaimed, www.blackpast.org/aah/kincaid-jamaica-1949. Accessed 7 February 2018

Sampson, Edward C. The 'W' in Hawthorne's Name. Hawthorne in Salem, 	www.hawthorneinsalem.org/ScholarsForum/MMD1114.html. Accessed 7 February2018

SparkNotes Editors. SparkNote on Girl. SparkNotes.com. SparkNotes LLC. 2007.			 Accessed 7 February 2018

Whitney, Terri. Biographical Information. Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel 		Hawthorne: Introduction, www.hawthorneinsalem.org/page/11708/.				 Accessed 7 February 2018



