Paine begins The Age of Reason by giving his reasons for publishing the work, covering both why he believes his views need to be published and his reason for publishing it when he does. He also goes on to acknowledge the controversial nature of what he is covering and says that he purposely waited until later in life to cover it. This is a remarkably clever move on Paine’s part, as by doing this he prevents many personal attacks, that while not logically would disrupt the character of his work, certainly would damage its credibility in the public eye, and by doing this he concretely establishing the relevance and credibility of the writing that follows. Paine also continues to make clear his goals in the writing of the work, and clearly outlining what he believes before further discussing it. This provides a great service to the reader as it clearly outlines his beliefs so when he later explains them in detail the reader isn’t left grasping for context and allows the reader to better understand how one belief may support another.

	On a personal level I find myself agreeing with much of what Paine outlines as his beliefs, however this still leaves some to be desired. For example, he says he believes that “religious duties consist in doing justice, loving mercy, and endeavoring to make our fellow creatures happy.” This is rather vague on Paine’s part, as he oversimplifies many concepts that philosophers have discussed for years, such as what justice is, what exactly “loving mercy” consists of, and what happiness is. All these things must be clearly defined if Paine is to practice what he believes, and therefore must also be defined if he is to clearly and thoroughly explain his beliefs to others. I also find fault with Paine’s assertion that he doesn’t think any less of those that believe differently than him, saying “I do not mean by this declaration to condemn those who believe otherwise; they have the same right to their belief as I have to mine.” While this may initially seem to be a logical statement, upon farther examination it is discovered to be highly illogical. If Paine truly does think that his beliefs are correct and others incorrect, then he inherently believes that he derives more happiness (whether that be in the moment or in whatever follows life, he believes it is best for him) from his beliefs than others do of theirs, and if he truly believes in “endeavoring to make our fellow creatures happy.” then he must condemn others for their beliefs, and do everything in his power to change them, otherwise he is straying from his very own beliefs. 

	Despite all of this I still find myself personally agreeing with many of his beliefs, as well as many of the things he doesn’t believe. I also have gained a thorough respect for Paine, as it is clear in his writing that he has put a great amount of thought into his beliefs and hasn’t simply picked a set of beliefs and chosen to support them. In addition to this I have gained much respect for his courage in the publishing of this work, as his views are rather different from that of most people of the time, and in a period of such religious intolerance was bound to lead to a highly unfavorable view of him and anyone he may associate himself with by the greater part of society.