
	

What do many people think about lack of education that is happening around the world? Many people would view the lack of education as having no kind form of education or lack of educational experiences. So what can lead to having no education to lack of having little experience in education?  Well, let me tell you there are many people around the world mostly in third world countries they have any educational opportunities or have to quick school at such a  young age due to helping their families by providing for them. As you can see many people around the world that are not educated or have too little education in their skill went through this kind of problem because as a young child many adults now is not as illiterate mostly going towards people that are poor. Therefore, the main why there are so many children and adults around the world that are not illiterate it leads to poverty. According to “Humanism: Right to Education: Situation around the world” an organization that helps children in poor country receive an education. According to the article as of now “More than 72 million children of primary education age are not in school and 759 million adults are illiterate”. As you can see there’s not many think about how and why some people in our country don’t have any education and little education experiences.

The lack of education is a form that many people sometimes use to explain the reason why some people are educated. Therefore, many people never had an education or have some kind of education but discontinue their education because of financial problem what many people view as a problem in our society.Although, many people sometimes know that when having no education compared to little education means that there is a reason why. Poverty plays a huge in the reason why children's and adults don’t have any education background, because of poverty and the way the education work mostly in countries that don’t have very much as for example children’s in the Sub- Saharan Africa faces many issues in their education system. Many problems that children in Africa face 

According to an article called “ Barriers to Education Around the World” written by Phineas Rueckert.  He mentioned that only poverty is the main issue for the non-education many children couldn’t get, but another reason that stands out from all is the fact that the teacher doesn’t have the training into becoming a teacher or having no teacher to teach them. One of the topic that he chose to explain is about the teachers he mentioned “  Not only are there not enough teachers globally to achieve universal primary education (let alone secondary), but many of the teachers that are currently working are also untrained, leading to children failing to learn the basics, such as maths and language skills”. The main focus of this statement that Phineas wrote was that with the lack of teacher and with teachers that have no education background is what bringing the students down in their education. An example that can be used is the education system in African as many people can see some students don’t have a teacher or their learning environment is different from students that actually have a classroom to learn in.

Proven, that there are still many uneducated children's that’s been increasing for a very long time. According to Releasing poverty children education Compassion they released a data explaining how many children lack education with the data explaining according to their ranking they state that “[in] 2014, more than 61 million children that are in primary age school were not enrolled” which this show that the lack of education doesn't have to be in countries that can’t afford education, but it comes from kids around the world. With the high data rate about the lacking of children education it sometime because many parents would rather have their children working instead of getting an education. According to  Global Citizen “Education Around the World” written by Krista Watson. In the article, Watson explained, “  some live in conflict zones, others aren’t allowed to attend school because they’re girls, or they don’t attend because their families need them to work and bring in income to support the family”. 

   	 The fact that the lack of education and poverty falls together, but as seen in a report in ChildFund of “Poverty and Education”. This report shows that there is a major difference between poverty which student cannot have education, but choose to support their families instead. According to ChildFund the fact that poverty and education in many countries are a problem but to an understanding, many children around third world countries are forced by their families to drop an education life and just work in the field in order to provide for their family. Knowing that many families that are living in the third world are mostly the one that their education system is low, because of the lack of teacher also having untrained teachers teaching the students. One of the many reasons why even though some children get to have an education, but still lack some source of knowledge is because the school doesn’t provide many books and worksheet are very limited to students. Another major reason according to Global Citizen many schools in Africa don’t have any classroom in Global Citizen article they state “ that if you don’t have a classroom, you don’t really have much of a chance of getting a decent education. But again, that’s a reality for millions of children worldwide. Children in many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa are often squeezed into overcrowded classrooms, classrooms that are falling apart, or are learning outside”. 

    	A study research from the University of LSU shows that when bringing poverty and education together for a child that doesn’t really have much is can cause a difficult situation in their life. Within LSU research conduct they split the research about poverty and education into three separate topics is Physical Readiness, Cognitive Readiness, and Funding for Education. Within these three topics, LSU conducted explained what is the main reason why poverty and education fall in together very clearly especially for children that can’t afford or have to stop school. Within Physical Readiness according to this topic that was presented by LSU is stated that it not only about being poverty can lead to a non education life but within their ability to go to school can relate to health issue which can lead to many illness if they ate the wrong food this can be a major reason why children in area that are not healthy or their food is not healthy enough for the student. Social Readiness is another cause that makes it harder for a student to have an education emotion is very important to base for a child living this can lead to their non-education life or not having enough knowledge. The emotion is common in many children around the world which meaning living in a single-family household with these kinds of situation is a problem knowing that it is hard for parent to support their child need when their child needs money for school, so some parent that is single decided it’s best for their child to stay home and not give them an education. Therefore, their emotion is one of the main concern knowing how some children that have been raised by a single parent would most likely talk back to the teacher or act in an aggressive way. 

    	The lack of education has been the main concern to many people who felt that children who can’t have the right education for themselves deserved to have the education that everybody gets around the world. Although, poverty is the main reason why some children in Africa and other countries can’t go to school because their parents want them to stay home and work to provide money for their families. This has been the case for so long the reason why you see some adults don’t have any kind of education is that they would rather work instead of going to school.













Work Cited

“10 Barriers to Education Around the World.” Global Citizen, .

“9 Facts to Know About Education Around the World.” Global Citizen, .

“Right to Education : Situation around the World.” Humanium • We Make Children's Rights Happen, www.humanium.org/en/right-to-education/.

