The Age of Reason by Thomas Paine did not really affect me in a radical way. The first emotion I felt was disagreement, not to be confused with judgement. As a person who identifies herself as a Christian, I do not see myself as a judge of another's thoughts or personal beliefs. I would rather see his side of things and respect them, as I do. Despite the disagreements I shared with Paine, I was not tempted to lash out, turn red, or just shut the book altogether. As you once stated in class, someone who is insecure or fresh in their beliefs tends to take disagreements closer to their hearts. I am not insecure, and my beliefs are not new as I have been raised to believe them throughout my life. I could see his point of view from a logical standpoint, and understood that from the mind's eye, things like miracles do not make sense. But just like he has seen things in his lifetime to deny that the churches he speaks of are anything more than money and power hungry, I have evidence to believe the opposite. My church is my home, the people there are my family, and the love that we share a for each other and for God does things to us spiritually and in our hearts that keeps us moving forward. I am sure that there are churches out there, including my own, containing people who are money and power hungry. But to condemn an entire church and all of its people based on a small few is not right, at least not in my eyes.

The second emotion I felt was indifference. He has a right to say what he wants, to do what he wants, and to believe what he wants. My thoughts and actions are my own, just as his thoughts and actions are his own. True Christian doctrine rules that we cannot condemn or judge another, because we are not the Judge. I also think since I have been raised to believe in free will, as well as raised in a generation of more accepting youth, my beliefs are much less on the defense than Puritan beliefs of that time. There is nothing in me that feels, "it's my way or the highway," so to speak. And I cannot say what happened to him in his afterlife, as I am not there myself. 