The Dark Side of the Internet

Throughout my life, electronics and social media have always been around. With me growing up during the technology savvy time, communicating through some sort of screen is only natural. As a teenager, having social media to express myself, share my thoughts, and socialize with others give me the option to avoid in person confrontation. I believe that these social media networks serve as a substitute for real life. The internet makes meeting people in-person awkward and it blinds me from seeing who they really may be.   

In today's time, social media makes it very easy for me to find and meet people online. Rather than introducing myself to someone in person I can simply find them online and send out a message. It is too easy today to talk with someone for weeks, maybe even months without ever having to present myself face to face. I feel that this alone has taken a toll on today's younger generation. I personally know and have gone through situations where I meet someone one time in person and then text them for the next few months without seeing them again. When that person and I cross paths in real life, the conversation is shorter than a minute long and neither of us knows what to do or say. This is a prime example of how I can get very comfortable behind a screen, but when I see someone that I'm only used to seeing online those moments can be weird and uncomfortable.



The next thing can enhance a young person's social life in a positive and negative way. Instagram is a popular site that I use quite often. People post pictures on their pages to share their lives with their followers expecting to get "likes" in return. When people see a picture with 120 or more likes, for example, people may think that person is popular and a well-liked. On the other hand, if a person post picture and it only gets around 50 likes it could bring that person's self-esteem down. For a young person on social media today the simple matter of how many likes they do or do not get can affect their attitudes for good or bad.

In conclusion, the social media sites in today's time can affect people's personalities all because of they are presenting themselves to others behind a screen. As the world progresses with technology the youth of today and the future will have a hard time trying to avoid the negative aspects of it. It would be beneficial if I got off social media every now and then, so I could communicate with people face to face and not be scared to do that. Social media gives today's youth the option to live their lives through a screen and present themselves as anyone they want to be. Social media can be very beneficial, but in the future, it could take a turn for the worst.