Human Experiences: Literary Effects

	Often times well established writers use past experiences to influence their writings. Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne are no exception. Chopin and Hawthorne use death, love, and uncertainty in all of their stories. All of which they both have experienced in their lives. Chopin uses her satisfying yet unlucky life to express her thoughts in her anecdote “The Story of an Hour.” While as Hawthorne uses his dark and ill-fated life to influence his writings in “Young Goodman Brown.”

	Nathanial Hawthorne was born in Salem, Ma shortly after the Salem Witch Trials. His Great Grandfather was a Judge in the trials. After losing his job as a surveyor of the port, and his mother in a short amount of time caused hatred towards the city. Hawthorne then moved to Lenox, Ma where he met his wife. “Young Goodman Brown” a short story written by Hawthorne is about a young man leaving his wife to travel for a night so that he may become a better person. In Goodman’s travels he meets a man with a serpent staff who turns out to be the devil. This story ties into Hawthorne’s life because he too left Salem believing it had nothing but sin. 

	Hawthorne once said “ Moonlight is Sculpture.” In this quote the reader can infer that Hawthorne uses the darkest things in life to express his brilliant writings. Another author that uses death to influence her writings is Kate Chopin. Chopin was born in St Louis, Mo. Around the age of nineteen she met her husband through some wealthy social events. Chopin moved to Louisiana where she was wealthy, had six children, and a wonderful marriage. It was not until 1879 when a financial crisis hurt her family. Chopin and her family moved to Cloutierville,La. Shortly after the move Chopin’s husband died of malaria. The death of her husband brought great sadness to her but a family friend encouraged her to begin writing.

	In “The Story of an Hour” a young woman hears her husband dies because of a train accident. She then expresses all of her emotions. The Woman is happy and relieved until her husband arrives alive at the end of the story. She then has a heart attack and dies. Chopin uses her husband’s death in many of her writings. This particular event in her life brings forth her passion and love towards her husband. “ The Story of an Hour” although it is about suspense and the happiness of her husbands death this can be tied into Chopin’s writings because of her mourning loss of her own husband. Chopin also uses her children in her stories. Reading Chopin’s stories will tell a lot about her character. She was a very family oriented person. 

	Hawthorne and Chopin are only a couple different examples of authors that use past experiences to influence their writings. However both of these authors have used this technique to become some of the best writers to ever live. Hawthorne using his dark past to create stories of mystery and sin. Then Chopin uses her writing to cope with the death of her husband. Both authors create a passion towards their own writings that can only be expressed through someone who has actually lived through it. The use of personal experiences is an excellent way of showing emotion towards a subject. 















Works Cited 









	