Thomas Paine’s The Age of Reason created a mood of indifference within me. I felt this indifference because I understand that Paine has his own system of beliefs that are different from my own. Pain clearly states his beliefs or rather his unbelief in the quote “Each of those churches accuses the other of unbelief; and for my own part, I disbelieve them all” (Paine 654). Here he states that he does not believe what the other churches believe because he believes what he wants to believe. The reason I am indifferent to what he is saying is because I know what I believe and what I believe is that it is not for me to judge what others believe. Also I know that the churches he is writing about all have similar yet different beliefs. I do not have to believe the same way as the other churches and Paine does not have to believe in the same way as any of the churches stated in his writing. I am also indifferent to the way he believes that we received the information written in the bible. He uses the example of the Virgin Mary and her husband Joseph and the concept and birth of Jesus Christ. He points out that this part of the bible is not written from Mary and Joseph themselves but through another person. As Paine quoted in chapter two “It is hearsay upon hearsay, and I do not choose to rest my belief upon such evidence” (Paine 655). Paine basically says that this part in the bible is not solid because it could be a story or a rumor passed down from person to person and does not have much evidence to support it. I myself do not believe that same way. I do believe that the conception and birth of Jesus Christ did happen the way that it was written in the bible. The reason I am indifferent about this is because many other religions have their own views about Jesus and who he was or how he came to be just like Thomas Paine. Their views do not have to match mine on the way that Christians believe that Jesus came or in how we received the information in written in the bible and the evidence or lack there of to support it. Overall Thomas Paine did not really provoke any major emotions within me as I read The Age of Reason. I felt indifferent throughout the passages because I want to give the same respect to his beliefs as I would want someone to respect my beliefs. 



























Works Cited 

Baym, Nina, et al. The Norton anthology of American literature. W.W. Norton, 2012.