Authors’ Backgrounds and Influences on Their Works

	Many times, authors use personal experiences in his or her writing. Authors use this experience as a way to connect with an audience and to add personality to their work. These personal experiences can make readers more interested in the work because they may relate somehow to the author’s experience. These experiences may influence the theme of a story, define a style for the author, as well as speak up for a cause that the author believes in.

	The theme of an author’s work can be significantly influenced by their personal experiences, such as in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown.” Hawthorne’s family history is directly linked to the Salem witch trials and he despised that fact (Whitney). He felt guilt over what his ancestors had done during those times, which influenced “Young Goodman Brown,” in which the theme is that man is predisposed to evil. Also, in this particular story, the main character, much like Hawthorne himself, loses his religious faith, after seeing horrible things that he does not even know were real. This is also a great influence on Hawthorne’s style. 

	An author’s style is often influenced by their past experiences. Hawthorne’s style, for example, is considered dark romanticism (2013). His works revolve around the idea that guilt, sin, and evil are traits that all of mankind naturally possess. His history with the Salem witch trials and his uneasiness with the role that his ancestors played in the condemning of women during that time greatly influenced this theme in his work. Jamaica Kincaid also allowed her style to be affected by her past experiences. Her short story “Girl” is one long sentence, yet it is divided into what sound like commands. Kincaid, born Elaine Potter, was raised in Antigua, where women were seen inferior to men and were only permitted to do certain things certain ways, as the narrator describes to her daughter in the story (“Jamaica Kincaid”). This leads to the idea of writers using their experiences to speak out for a cause that they believe in.

	Jamaica Kincaid uses “Girl” to exaggerate the fact that women do not have the same rights and privileges everywhere that they do in America. In the country where she was raised, the girls learned how to please society at a young age, as does the girl in the story (“Jamaica Kincaid”). However, the girl in the story does not fully understand why she is being told everything that her mother is trying to tell her. Kate Chopin is another author who used her work to fight for a cause that she believed in. She wrote about sensitive, intelligent women and their roles in society. This reflects her experience because she was raised in a bilingual household and was very well educated, to say the least. Her work illustrated that women did not have to be below men, and that women could rise up and take control of their destinies (“Biography … Stories”). 

	Writers and their past experiences are key parts in the shaping of their works. Whether it be through theme, style, or purpose, these experiences affect the perception of the works through relation to the audience, from the author. 











Works Cited



“Influencing Nathaniel Hawthorne's Style.” Wordpress, 17 Mar. 2013, tbradford1.wordpress.com/2013/03/17/what-influenced-nathaniel-hawthornes-dark-writing-style/.

“Jamaica Kincaid.” Biography, biography.yourdictionary.com/jamaica-kincaid.

“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, Stories.” KateChopin.org, . 

Whitney, Terri. “Nathaniel Hawthorne Biography.” Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne: Introduction, www.hawthorneinsalem.org/Life&Times/BiographicalInfo/Introduction.html.

