The most influential pieces of literature are ones that are written by everyday people who have gone through certain life events. These events can be ones that happen every day, or events that can change the course of someone's life. Whichever it may be, the author is going to be influenced by personal events when writing. The reader will also see a change in the perception of the text through the way the author's experiences impact the literature. Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin's literature are all influenced by the personal experiences in their lives. Kate Chopin was raised in a bilingual home mostly by women, and she also attended a Sacred Heart school where she was mentored by nuns. This is shown in her pieces of early feminist literature. Nathaniel Hawthrone was brought up in a family that had close dealings with the Salem Witch trials, and he reflected his discomfort with this in about six literary works (hawthorneinsalem.org). The two authors have been impacted by the home they grew up in, their family history, and lifetime events that shaped the literature these authors have written.

Notably, Kate Chopin grew up in a home very close to her mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and the Sacred Heart nuns. These family members and sisters were the only influence on her in the most important times of development in her life (katechopin.org). In one of her most known works, "The Story of an Hour," Kate Chopin wrote about what was probably her early feministic views. She talked of how free the main female character felt when she found out her husband had died. The woman felt free to live and be on her own. This was not a surprise that Kate Chopin wrote about this because growing up she watched how free women could be without the oppression of a male figure. Nathaniel Hawthrone mostly grew up in a home in Salem, Massachusetts. His family brought him up with strict Puritan beliefs. His father passed away and left his mother with three children. The family had to move into a house with relatives, and Nathaniel Hawthorne lived in a room with his uncles (hawthorneinsalem.org). This Puritan home life he shared with his immediate and extended family helped shape his late literature by setting up a basis for his beliefs.

Above all, the most influential authors were born into a life where there were family histories of good or bad events. These circumstances are especially influential on the writer's literature because they must face family hardships or prosperity that can be beyond their control. For example, Nathaniel Hawthorne was born to ancestors of men who were involved in persecutions of Quakers and witches (Hawthorneinsalem.org). Major William Hathorne persecuted Quakers while later in life his son John was one of the three judges that went on to execute countless people in the famously known, Salem Witch Trials (Hawthorneinsalem.org). Nathaniel Hawthorne was very interested in this pattern of behavior of his ancestors that he went on to let it influence his literature, including "Young Goodman Brown" (hawthorneinsalem.org). Likewise, Kate Chopin was born to a prominently female household which sculpted her views and beliefs early in life. She was raised and was close with only female members of her family since the age of five (katechopin.org). Her family's nurturing which was beyond Kate Chopin's control impacted the way she grew up and then translated to her literature. 

Throughout the course of life, there are events that take place that are planned, spontaneous, good, or bad. These events can change the course of life and the course of development. When Nathaniel Hawthorne was only a young boy his father died from yellow fever (Hawthorneinsalem.org). This left him to grow up fatherless and travel on a different path. He moved in with extended family since it was hard for his mother to take care of all three children alone (hawthorneinsalem.org). A crucial experience that gave Nathaniel Hawthorne his love for writing and ultimately shaped his future stories was a leg injury that kept him immobile for a lengthy time (hawthorneinsalem.org). Nathaniel Hawthorne then went on to get an education at a university; this experience gave him more knowledge to compose his literature. Kate Chopin also went through many life changing experiences that would go onto affect her literature. She lost her father in a railroad accident when she was only five years old. (katechopin.org). This may sound familiar because "The Story of an Hour" is about a woman who supposedly loses her husband in a railroad accident. This just shows that personal events can truly influence literature. Her beloved great grandmother died. Soon after, her half-brother, mother, and husband died leaving her all alone. Kate Chopin channeled most of her sadness through her writing (katechopin.org). 

Lastly, after analyzing these two authors, it is very apparent that personal experience clearly translates to someone's literature. People are molded by what they grow up being taught, their family history, and lifetime events. They are also molded by what seems to be a lot of death and sadness. Kate Chopin endured losses while Nathaniel Hawthrone dealt with the haunting of his ancestor's gruesome past. All this is portrayed in their style of writing and their choice of content. It is easy to declare that personal experiences shape good literature and can impact the way the reader perceives the text.  





Works Cited

Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne: Introduction, www.hawthorneinsalem.org/Life&Times/BiographicalInfo/Introduction.html. 

“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, stories.” KateChopin.org, .

“Nathaniel Hawthorne Biography.” Encyclopedia of World Biography,               www.notablebiographies.com/Gi-He/Hawthorne-Nathaniel.html. 





