Thematic Comparison

	After reading an author’s biography, oftentimes it is evident that the writer has deeper relations behind their fictional stories than what is on the surface. Through reading Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown” and Kate Chopin’s “Story of an Hour,” this occurrence is found to be strikingly true, as both author’s stories seemingly give an account of their lives. Hawthorne and Chopin reference each of their lives throughout these stories by creating a main character to bear their own burdens, symbolically naming others in the story, and describing the social issues they are currently facing.

	Nathaniel Hawthorne had a troubling life with many heartbreaks. His despair and grief often translates over into his story “Young Goodman Brown,” by putting his past onto a character in a fictional writing. Firstly, Hawthorne openly describes his loathe of Salem, Massachusetts in his biography. He considers the city vile because too many misfortunes, over the course of his life, have taken place there. Furthermore, in the first sentence of “Young Goodman Brown,” he places the setting of the story in Salem. Immediately, this sets a theme for the reader because of prior knowledge of the author’s hatred for this town. Additionally, a massive burden that has always troubled the author was his ancestor’s past. Hawthorne openly speaks about his great grandfather’s history with the witch trials and of another forefather who oppressed Quakers, as this obviously distressed and tormented his conscious. In his story, when the devil and Brown are walking through the gloomy forest, the devil references Goodman Brown’s grandfather as “the constable, [who] lashed the Quaker woman,” (Hawthorne 323). Brown found the Devil’s words hard to swallow as his family had always been faithful and honest Puritans. This could be used to similarly describe what it was like for Hawthorne to be revealed his family’s horrid past. Towards the end of the story, Brown is in the ceremony when he realizes his wife is not there. His wife, Faith, is symbolically named because she represents holiness and goodness. After realizing she is gone, Goodman Brown yells that his “Faith is gone!” and that, “there is no good on earth” (Hawthorne 326). Nathaniel Hawthorne could have felt this way when his mother died, as he left Salem and everything he has ever known. Through Goodman Brown’s character and story, Hawthorne portrayed his life’s sorrows and troubles.

	Similarly, Kate Chopin’s early life was filled with death and grievances. She became a widow at a very young age and was left to raise her six children by herself. This narrative carries over to “The Story of an Hour,” in which the death of Mrs. Mallards husband was met with a calming relief. Mrs. Mallard was finally “free, free, free!” from her overbearing spouse (Chopin 15). In this time period, women were not viewed as high members of society, as they were to remain fully submissive to men. Furthermore, Mrs. Mallard describes her husband’s face as one “that had never looked save with love upon her” (Chopin 16). This quote is deeply heart wrenching, as oftentimes men never truly loved their wives and viewed them as property or a possession. Chopin is referencing her own life through the character Mrs. Mallard, by describing the death of her husband and the overwhelming relief that was brought upon her. At the end of the short story, Mr. Mallard walked into the home alive and well, which caused his wife to die instantly. She felt so disgraceful for being excited about her husband’s death that she died immediately of a heart attack from guilt and shame. Chopin uses this short story to relate to her own husband’s death and how freeing it was for her to be alone. At the time, this story was looked at with extreme hostility, but because the rights of women have advanced, it is no longer viewed with such insensitivity. 

In conclusion, reading Nathaniel Hawthorne’s and Kate Chopin’s biography strongly influenced the way that I viewed each of their stories. Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown” and Chopin’s “Story of an Hour,” were both written in relation to their sorrowful and troubling lives. Hawthorne and Chopin portray their memoir onto a fictional character who expresses their grievances, symbolically names others in the story, and deliberate the social injustices that they are facing. Because both authors faced abandonment, family casualties, and demise at such a young age, they have constructed these stories with deep and touching meaning.





























Works Cited

Whitney, Terri. “Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne:

	Introduction.” Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne: Introduction, 

	www.hawthorneinsalem.org/Life&Times/BiographicalInfo/Introduction.html.

“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, Series.” Edited by Bernard

	Koloski, KateChopin.org, www.katechopin.org/biography/.

Meyer, Michael. The Bedford Introduction to Literature: Reading, Thinking, and Writing. 

	Bedford/St Martins, 2016.





 





