
The making of a great writer begins with their upbringing. The way that people act is a representation of what influenced them as they grew up. Some things that form people into what they are today could be their gender, the community they were raised in, the worry about public image, and many other qualities that make up different personalities. Just like how these things are important factors in making up a person character these same traits play a big role in the way writers compose their stories. Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid face similar experiences in life such as dealing with control and gaining freedom.

Realizing that both authors I chose are women, being in a controlling situation is not an odd thing? In The Story of an Hour by Kate Chopin one of the main characters Mrs. Mallard is in a controlling relationship. Although Mrs. Mallard does describe Mr. Mallard as an ideal husband, in the marriage she feels trapped and that she is living for him. Ultimately this can be seen as not having control and respect for herself. The theme of this story can relate back to Chopin's father that died in a train accident when she was only a young teenager. Chopin's short story could be revealing the role that her father had in her life and the impression that men had on her in general. Opposite from The Story of an Hour in Girl by Jamaica Kincaid the mother played the controlling role. Kincaid grew up in a Caribbean family where the important values of being a woman were taught at a young age. In Girl, the daughter receives some harsh advice from the  


mother and only speaks up to defend herself twice. This goes to show that the daughter and Kincaid alike had lots of authority in their lives. 

 Freedom is a something cherished by both authors relating to their stories and their personal lives. In Kate Chopin's The Story of an Hour she finds relief behind closed doors after hearing of her husband's death from a train accident. Although she did grieve her husband's

death, she also felt that she could now be in control of her life with him out of the picture. Chopin's real life relates to her literature because she was left to take care of their six children after her husband died, but she never chose to remarry. On the other hand, Kincaid finds freedom outside of her literature. Moving away from home at the age of sixteen with a new name, Jamaica Kincaid gained a large amount of freedom in living her life the way she wanted to live it.

Once reading the short stories and the biographies that went along with those authors, realizing that there were similarities was very apparent. It is very neat to see how the author's real lives are incorporated into these fictional stories that they write. Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid come from different backgrounds, but their stories share some similarities. Being in a situation where one has little control, to being in a place where one has newfound freedom is a visible theme in both stories. When relating those situations to their short stories it makes me look for a deeper meaning than what is only on the paper and check into the backgrounds of their life. Not only do the personalities of the author go into their writings, but the bits and pieces of their lives play a role in them as well.  

