Thematic Comparison 

	“Turn your wounds into wisdom,” said by the powerful Oprah Winfrey; signifying a positive use of a negative experience. Wisdom is created through lessons gained from experiences, and these authors have gained their own wisdom. Kate Chopin, the author of “The Story of an Hour,” and Jamaica Kincaid’s, author of “Girl,” personal experiences have shaped them to become the brilliant writers they are known to be. As Oprah Winfrey stated in her quote, Kincaid and Chopin turned wounds into wisdom that became known as memorable literature. The personal experiences of Chopin and Kincaid have shaped and created their great stories is because it emerged passion into their work, carved themes for their stories, and made the works relatable to most audiences. 

	Furthermore, passion is the devotion to some activity, object, or concept as defined by Merriam-Webster. Writers are widely known to be passionate about their work, but when the piece of work reads of something that hits home the passion strengthens. This passion is demonstrated with diction that enriches the story drawing the targeted audience in. Chopin, familiar with tragedy, writes of death with such a distinguished knowledge. Losing family members in her early life such as her father, great grandmother, and also her brother (KateChopin.org). In “the Story of an Hour,” Chopin states, “She did not hear the story as many women have heard the same, with paralyzed inability to accept its significance” as she tells of her characters ability to accept her husband’s death with what is illustrated to be a breath of fresh air. Chopin’s story of a woman who fails to mourn her husband’s death, but rather feels a sense of freedom shows her familiarity with the topic as she writes of the reality in a possibility. The words of “inability” and “paralyzed” are two intense adjectives that describe the emotions felt when discovering a newfound loss; though the character of the novel did not experience these emotions. Chopin’s honesty in a subject as dark as death derives from the depth of her gained knowledge. This ability to utilize such given diction would be less than possible without her experience in tragedy which enabled her to access the past emotions felt with her many losses. As well as Kate Chopin, Jamaica Kincaid utilizes her experience to show passion within diction. According to a BBC biography on Kincaid, she experienced the loss of importance in her mother’s eyes at such a young age that caused her to feel neglected. A relationship that drips of significance in a young girl’s upbringing is spoken so passionately about in Kincaid’s story of “Girl.” Kincaid states, “… on Sunday’s try to walk like a lady and not like the slut you are so bent on becoming…” demonstrating the harshness that drips from her mother’s voice as she tells her daughter to walk a certain way so she would not be seen as a slut. This harsh diction in a word as ugly as “slut” may have signified the anger Kincaid felt when reliving the neglect in the relationship she had with her mother. Kincaid was able to perform such given diction from her experience in neglection within her mother/daughter relationship exemplifying a more realistic relationship. Though, again, the realness of the situation entices the audiences as she speaks so passionately in this conversation between mother and daughter. This intense diction is an example of experience that made for well written literature. 

	Therefore, as the authors’ gain wisdom through personal experiences they utilize this wisdom as an instrument to carve themes for their present works. Kate Chopin’s familiarity with a strong woman role model in her upbringing is a present theme in “the Story of an Hour.” This certain theme being revealed as the role of woman. As the story tells of a woman who is expected to mourn the “death” of her husband, as any woman in the era of “woman tend to men” would, but instead she feels a sense of freedom. The reappearance of her once dead husband, causes the wife to die of a heart attack as she feels the freedom slip from her grasp while taking her last breath. This freedom felt by Mrs. Mallard goes against the idea that a woman should feel as if a piece is taken from her as her husband dies. This representation of a more realistic woman who negates the expectations provides the audience with a change and/or new perspective. Chopin was able to use Mrs. Mallard as an example that a woman can be one without a man to present an informative theme. These beliefs are based off her upbringing in such an overwhelmingly woman-based presence creating literature that defied the expectations from a woman. Just as Chopin, Jamaica Kincaid uses her relationship with her mother, as well as other family members, to generate a theme of mother-daughter relationships in her story, “Girl.” Kincaid also utilizes her strong pro-woman beliefs to generate a theme in the same piece of work (BBC).  As the story tells of a mother who scolds the daughter of her responsibilities as a female. She is given this ridiculous list of responsibilities, but the Girl questions the tasks given in a conversational manner. This illustrates a mother-daughter relationship as well as role of women in the era that Kincaid was raised in as well as the role of woman. This newer generation may not be completely familiar as times have changed, but with this written word the audience is given insight to an older age through the obvious theme. Kincaid was able to spotlight these ridiculous tasks to exhibit the absurdness of what was seen to be the work of a woman. These personal experiences that were utilized by the authors’ provided them with an opportunity to offer wisdom in their works. A wisdom that is sought out by targeted audiences reeling them into great literature. 

	Additionally, literature becomes more enticing when the reader is able to relate to the context or gains a lesson from the story itself. This is only possible when the writer has experienced the obstacle that is life. Kate Chopin’s ability to recreate tragedy as well as emotions felt from lost allows the audience to relate. As they, themselves, may have dealt with similar experiences. Even so, the audience can relate to the humbleness demonstrated when a person of great intellect overcomes a common obstacle. When writing of tragedy there is the possibility of helping the audience cope with death or lost. Chopin’s kin interest in feminism attracted the attention of woman. Relating to woman readers who share the same beliefs in feminism draws a newer, even younger audience as the rally for woman’s rights continues. Jamaica Kincaid’s work in the “Girl,” not only relates to all daughters, but relates to all woman of all ages. Every woman in this man dominated world has felt that sense of exasperation when constantly being compared to the male population. In present day, rather than being seen for our accomplishments as woman there is always a comparison to what man has done. According to the Bible, Eve was made from Adam’s rib, Adam needs Eve to live. The daughter in Girl is a spokesmen for all woman in relation to needing to understand the idiotic importance in being raised to do for a man. Which is evident as the daughter questions her mother’s reasoning for teaching her such tasks for men. As if they are so feeble and are not able to do for themselves. The mother-daughter relationship, some have felt neglected in a vital relationship that affected them negatively. These authors’ ability to relate to their readers from personal experiences is impressionable. Instead of letting experience overcome their being, Chopin and Kincaid write to help others as well as themselves while influencing readers. 

	To conclude, literature is only considered “great” when the author can write with an evident wisdom. Kate Chopin who experienced death and tragedy while withholding feminist beliefs in life and Jamaica Kincaid who was affected by the loss of attention from her mother are two great writers. Though, these amazing works are shaped from the gained wisdom through personal experiences. The reasons why their personal experiences called for impressive literature is: it created passion in their work, paved themes for their writings, and lastly made the literature relatable to most audiences. Most may have experienced similar situations, but only few are able to utilize these experiences for the good of well written literature. 

	



















Works Cited

“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, Stories.”  KateChopin.org, The 

Kate Chopin International Society, 2005. Web. 25 Feb. 2018 

“Her Story | BBC World Service.” BBC News, BBC. Web. 25 Feb. 2018 

Meyer, Michael. The Bedford Introduction to Literature: Reading, Thinking, and Writing.	Bedford/St Martins, 2016. Print. 

“Passion.” Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, 2018. Web. 26 Feb. 2018 