	Nowadays there are many social-networking sites for different kinds of people with specific interests, depending on what they are looking for. They can be to make friends, find a job, or other things. However, how real is their life in this kind of web-sites? Do the people really have a social life when they are always interacting more by their cell-phones or laptops than talking with people facing each other? There are two points of view about social-networking; one side is that this is not real life, and other is that this is one of new styles of life. 

	People think the more followers they have, the more friends they have. This situation comes to the point that marketing is involved with all this. You tube is a good example of people talk about the new trend of youtubers. They encourage the users to get more followers, so they can get a pay for that by advertisements. Then, the users try to do any kind of behaviors to get more attention which means more followers. This makes people feel good because that means they have an active social life because they are popular.

	From my point of view, social-networking is not a real social life; it is just a kind of trend. I consider social life as interacting with each other.in the way that they can have body contact. For example, when I see my best friend, I feel I just want to hug her because I feel better when I know she is there and she cares about me. However, when people have one thousand followers and they need someone who listens to them they realize that most of them are not their friends; they are just part of the trend.

	On the other hand, many people argue that social media is awesome because people can keep in touch with those who are far away, make new friends that probably they would not meet if it was no for social media, and even a significant other. Reflecting about it, people think it does not matter if they cannot have body contact because nowadays people can make video calls when which keep more realistic friendships or relationships.

	Finally, I think it depends on every person what kind of social life they want to have. If some people are happy and feel they have a successful social life by the followers they have, it is understandable. As in everything, people are different and have different ways to be comfortable making friends or finding a substitute for a social life.