Analysis and Discourse on MLK’s Anti-War Sermon 

One of the greatest civil rights and world-peace advocates, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., lived his life believing that, in almost every case, violence was not the answer, but rather peaceful negotiations and peace talks were. This belief materialized in his position on the Vietnam War. On April 30, 1947 he gave one of his sermons at the Ebenezer Baptist Church and in it he focused on voicing his arguments for why he strongly opposes the war in Vietnam. King’s main argument that the war was an enemy of peace, the poor, and racial equality, that it was all connected. While the majority of Americans were against the war, and as time passed more and more people would realize how the war was a mistake, there were people who disagreed with King. Those that opposed argued that they wanted the issues of war, and that of racial equality, to be separate for they believed them to be two different topics entirely, as a ‘negro’ could be supportive of racial equality and still be supportive of the war as well. However 

King dismisses these critics and continues with his messages and campaign. 

Martin Luther King Jr. began his sermon at the Ebenezer Baptist Church on April 30, 1947 with a lesson from the bible that says remaining neutral during a great moral conflict is worst and most evil choice one can make, worse than being on the morally wrong side, but in some cases man must oppose this doctrine and that of one's government for the greater good and for peace. However, he remarks on how difficult it can be for many to speak out, especially during times of war. He makes a comment here about how it is even harder for millions to speak out due to the government actively trying to silence the voices of those that oppose its doctrine. In fact this was during the time in American history when big changes were being made in domestic political affairs and political pressure was everywhere, especially due to the Cold War and the Vietnam War, and the federal government would continue to do whatever it could to silence the opposition, including the later ​Controlled Substances Act​ of 1970 where the presidential successor to LBJ, Richard Nixon, used the law to imprison the ethnic and cultural groups who opposed the war, primarily ‘blacks and hippies’. It has only gotten more obvious with time that King was not exaggerating when he said that there were many reasons for people to fear speaking out. 

Nevertheless, Dr. King hopes to inspire those in fear to use it to fuel their souls and speak out against blatant injustices against God, democracy, and one’s fellow man. Such injustices, he argues, exist not only recently in the war, but has been present in America since its founding and people have been fighting a battle against it since. This, of course, is referring to racism, segregation, slavery, disenfranchisement, etc. as minorities, mainly African Americans, have experienced from the white majority over the centuries. Dr. King uses an argument of analogy to connect these continuous domestic issues to the current foreign issue of war by suggesting that those who oppose segregation, violence, racism, and injustice committed by the government at home should also oppose the violence, racial prejudice, and self-interest fueled injustice committed by the very same government abroad, even if it is in a foreign land being. He believes this and supports his belief using the Bible and the Bill of Rights, both of which teach that “Men are created equal” and thus one should not start or partake in any fight as in any violent conflict, one side must consider itself to have more rights than the other which goes against basic morality. 

This part of King’s argument, his connecting of the issues of racial equality and anti-militarism, is the most criticized following the publication and spread of his speech. While the majority of people seemed to support King, as seen in interviews with other religious and political movement leaders, they were vocal enough to make Luther give a speech later to show he and his campaign would not be affected. They argued that the two issues should be kept separate. Some interviewees stated that they could be both supportive of the war while still fighting for racial equality at home. Many of these people were also afraid that King would give so much attention to the anti-war movement that he would focus little on the fight for racial equality for the duration of the war, leaving many of the smaller activists groups with even less support. One example is the article written in response to King’s sermon where the author voices the concerns of fellow activist Hosea Williams who feared that King had “Written Off the South” in order to focus on the anti-war effort. King, however, argues this is not the case, rather the opposite. He argued the issue of peace and non-violence bridges the two issues and continued to rebuke his critics by saying that for every $5 donator they lose they gain a $500 donator, for those who are passionately fighting for world-peace will see how there can not be peace at home if we are fighting an unjust war.

While many people have been voicing their opinions, according to the statement from King that polls have shown that at least 15 million Americans oppose the war, he asserts that there are still many millions that remain quiet because they might lose their job, be ostracized by their family, and, even worse, labeled as a spy or anarchist. The remarks he makes on how some leaders of the government will take horrible steps to silence those opposes are relevant in 2018 as the actions taken by corrupt leaders, especially those under Nixon and his administration, are still being fought against and slowly reversed across the country. The most popular recent example is the legislation and controversy over the use of cannabis. During this time in America, the government would use the illegality of substance use to oppress free-speech from the anti-war and segregation groups, which primarily consisted of ‘hippies’ and ‘blacks’. Nixon would pass the Controlled Substances Act and ignite the war on drugs. However this war was not about drugs, it was about politics. This is obvious today as there is a direct quote from Nixon’s presidential aid that they used the ability to arrest people for simple possession or use to destroy Nixon’s political opponents:  

“You understand what I'm saying? We knew we couldn't make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin. And then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities," Ehrlichman said. "We could arrest their leaders. raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did.” 

The effects of this corruption and overuse of power are still being felt today as America has the highest incarceration rate in the world due to how easy it has been to be arrested by the Feds since the outlaw of drugs, especially cannabis which brings in the most incarcerations for its possession, use, and distribution. This little piece of unjust legislation by the American government has caused unnecessary suffering, so it is not a fair-shot to assume it isn’t the only corrupt and unjust decision made by the government in these recent but critical era of American history. 

Luther continues his powerful message by describing how it is ironic that we have segregation at home but will send the sons and fathers of our nation to fight together, seeing no color, only friends and foes. Yet they kill and die fighting an unjust, unwanted war and commit war crimes and acts of great suffering, such as the bombings in Cambodia, which was a neutral country on the borders, and civilian villages as long as there was a chance they held Vietcong guerilla soldiers. Meanwhile they get told they are fighting for ‘freedom’ and ‘democracy’ as the issue of segregation continues like a political war back home, meaning their own democratic government can’t provide its own people with true freedom and equality. 

Another major point that King makes in his sermon for why he is explicitly against the war in Vietnam is because he believes the war, as any war, is an enemy of the poor. This, he argues, is because of the cost of war being so great that it takes away money that can be used for public health services and projects. One such is helping the poor and impoverished, which he firmly believes is a responsibility of man due to the teaching in the Bible that teaches those who have more to give to those who are less fortunate, and it is one of the noblest things one can do for God and one’s fellow man. He continues with an emotion field statement on how it is a terrible injustice that we are not only fighting, killing, and destroying poor villages in the war, but we spend an average of $500,000 to kill each Vietcong soldier, while leaving the poor in America only $57 to help themselves. Therefore the war does not bring the fighting to only a 

foreign enemy, but also to the most vulnerable of our society in effect. 

The only critiques of this part of King’s speech argued that the money spent on the war wouldn’t necessarily go to helping the poor or racial equality or any actually productive. However, King would likely rebuttal by saying that no matter what the money ends up being spent on, it would still be better than having so much money go to a machine of violence and injustice. 

The last point King makes is his aspiration for World Peace and the advice he gives to America regarding it. He believes it is now necessary for the survival of humanity to fight for equality and, as a larger and ultimate goal, world peace, as the government leaders who were expected to fight for justice, peace, equality, and human rights has become concerned with militarism and racism. He worries of the possible doom that might result if humanity continues on its course and its “study of war”. During a powerful moment in the second to last paragraph of his sermon he says he, “can hear God saying to America, "You're too arrogant! And if you don't change your ways, I will rise up and break the backbone of your power...”, to illustrate that if America continues to involve itself with Vietnam and other future yet similar wars it will submit to another nation. However it can be interpreted that when he says, “...and I'll place it in the hands of a nation that doesn't even know my name”, he might be referring to America succumbing to corruption and the personal agendas of those in power, both economically and politically. Either way his warning was one of truth for America ended up in unjust wars in the coming decades, such as in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the political, economic, and social stability of the nation has been weakened by corruption, violence, and personal agendas.

This sermon given by the reverend Martin Luther King Jr. was an important moment as it brought the idea of foreign policy and domestic being related and connected, even if not explicitly so. Such a case is the Vietnam war, according to King. He argued in this powerful message that one must oppose the war if also opposing racism and oppression. He supported it with arguments of analogy, he referenced to the actions the government has took in the past and the present, and even used some statistics to show just how harmful the war is to the other issues he and his followers have been fighting for centuries. While there was some opposition in the following weeks, mainly from those who wanted the fight against racism and war to be separate, King made sure it was known in the following days that his speech reached out to many and helped their cause a hundred times more than those they lost. Thankfully the message King gave would not be dismissed as the conflict revolving the opposition of the war would only increase as opposition, lead by those like King, grew. In fact, the very words uttered to America by King in his advice/warnings came to fruition as Nixon and Bush would push the country further towards militarism and political oppression, leading to damage that the American people still are recovering from today.  