

“Age of Reason”

	While reading Thomas Paine’s “Age of Reason,” I didn’t feel as many emotions as some might, or should I say, as strongly as some might. Growing up, my family was not big into church. When I was a baby/toddler we would go every Sunday but the older I got the less frequent we would visit due to certain drama that went down within our home church. We went from going every Sunday, to every other Sunday, to Holidays only, leading us to now only going a few times a year at most while bouncing between the visitation of different churches within the area. However, spending most of my life outside of a church I was still raised and brought up a Christian. This leads me to having some emotions about Paine’s words but not actually being offended. Instead of making me mad or upset, “The Age of Reason” actually just made me question a lot of things. Not necessarily question my faith and religion, but question the church. Having experienced a church falling apart due to drama and financial situations, I especially was drawn to Paine’s statement he makes in chapter one, paragraph eight where he says, “All national institutions of churches, whether Jewish, Christian, or Turkish, appear to me no other than human inventions set up to terrify and enslave mankind, and monopolize power and profit.” This sentence made my Paine was especially interesting it to me because it has fit my experience so well. The church I was apart of fell apart due to leadership problems and money issues. After we stopped going to that specific church, many of the members shamed and harassed us to come back. We were told that we would not find another church that fits our needs and that God was ashamed of us from walking away from him. God was ashamed for walking away from people who were misusing a place of worship? I think not. They monopolized power and profit and the church fell because of it, then they tried to terrify those who didn’t want any part. They took a place that was meant for worshipping God and made it into something about themselves. This specific church is exactly what Paine had described in his work, which leads me to questioning the other aspects of my faith that Paine describes. After finishing “The Age of Reason,” I felt relieved. I felt relieved that I couldn’t relate to anything else Paine talked about and my confidence in my faith was restored. Those were the only emotions I felt while reading Paine’s work. I never felt anger, just curiosity, relief, and then confidence. In order for one to feel anger while reading “The Age of Reason,” one must not be that open-minded.  I feel that Paine was just stating his opinions and was not trying to persuade anyone, just open eyes of the audience to see his point of view. In my opinion, those angered by this work aren’t exactly positive in their own faith and should be questioning themselves instead of casting anger towards Paine. 