The Age of Reason was a very controversial piece of literature in the late 1700’s and early 1800’s. It might still be today if it was a popular topic. It was a book published in three parts that dismissed the Puritan view on Christianity. This writing was what everyone wanted when it first came out due to the enlightenment and the push for more science at the time.  This book was so controversial that the British government had to ban it from England. When reading this as a Christian, the feeling of frustration arises. Paine’s writing style is very straight forward and unforgiving. He has views different than Christianity, thinks that the Bible is just another piece of literature, and explains why his views are right. Most of his writing makes a lot of sense because he uses logic and realistic evidence to support his claims. When keeping an open mind while reading this book, it is easy to see why Paine was a deist. He was a great freethinker and he was very popular because he put his mind to work. It is frustrating because it challenges Christian beliefs with another explanation for God and makes sense while doing so. The Age of Reason also sparked a feeling of curiosity. While conflicting with my religious beliefs, it was interesting to see what Paine’s mindset was and to try to understand why he thought the things that he did. I was also curious to see why he thought that the church was an institution that had a main goal of deceiving people. Paine thought that the Christian church was a very corrupt establishment. He believed that the main goal of the church was to gain political power by scaring people into believing that they were sinners and asked the sinners for their money. It is also stated in The Age of Reason that the church tries to convince people that they are chosen ones even though anyone can become apart of the religion if they recognize the church as power. This was very interesting to read. Even though some of the things he says about the church and religion make sense, there is no definitive evidence that what he says is correct. However, there is no evidence to prove that what he says is not true either and that is the main reason it is frustrating to read. The emotions of curiosity and frustration were present throughout most of the book.