Contrasting Views of Faith Puritanism and Enlightenment





    The idea of faith is a diverse subject. It affects the way people behave and the decisions they make throughout their lives. The question asked is whether faith is an absence of thought, or if it is driven off of facts and through the mind. On one spectrum, Puritans would argue that faith is a feeling. On the other hand, people who practice enlightenment could say that thinking is the way to a virtuous life.   

    The Puritans live a life driven by the belief that faith is about feeling. To Puritans, faith is, in fact, an absence of thought.  In order to receive God’s grace, you must feel him with you. Puritans are traditionally Christian, and God is a big part of their lives. They cannot pursuit their religion unless they believe that they feel God’s presence with them. Puritans approach faith in a moral way. For instance, Mary Rowlandson exemplifies puritan beliefs. In her writing “A Narrative to The Captivity”, her faith in God gives her strength. She feels that God has another plan for her, although there is no proof that her life will turn around for the better. She felt the presence of God, to help her get through adversity. Through this, it is fair to say that puritans believe that someone is able to have faith, without falling back on science or facts. 

    Furthermore, people who believed in enlightenment are persistent in the belief that faith is not a matter of feeling, but instead solely relies on fact and scientific advances. This was often compared to as a movement that challenged traditional religious views. Enlightenment people denounced supernatural occurrences as superstition. To add to that, most Enlightenment thinkers believed in God. This is represented by the Deist Movement. Deism is defined as someone who believes in the existence of God but denies that religion is felt, basing their beliefs on natural law and scientific inquiry. Enlightenment beliefs put emphasis on reason and not authority. They encouraged scientific inquiry and wanted to learn about the facts, which will up receding faith. All in all, Enlightenment thinkers believe that faith and thought go hand in hand.

    To conclude, there are unique differences in the beliefs of Puritans and enlightenment believers. Puritans are massively driven by the thought that as long as they can feel God’s presence in their lives, they will be rewarded with success and happiness. They know that imperfection is accepted and God will always lead them the right way despite their flaws.  On the opposite side, Enlightenment thinkers believe that faith is driven by facts and science. A man’s mind will drive their success. The perfectibility of Man is possible and the closer they are to approaching this, the more faith they have in themselves. All in all, although there are differences, both beliefs have left a mark on American culture and have shaped our own beliefs today.