Some author’s backgrounds and experiences can be a powerful influence in their later writings. Kate Chopin was raised and mentored by women and Nathaniel Hawthorne was raised by Puritans in Salem, Massachusetts. Their great works can be attributed to many things such as their families, trauma, and culture.  

	Both the families of Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne had an influence in their writings. Kate Chopin was surrounded by strong women growing up. She was raised by her mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and the nuns that taught her at school. Being raised by those women had a great impact on Kate Chopin's views on women's rights. She later expressed her ideas throughout her writings. Nathaniel Hawthorne was not very fond of his family. He changed the spelling of his last name to distance himself from his great-grandfather John Hathorne who was a judge of the Salem Witch Trials and his great-great-grandfather William Hathorne who was a judge in Salem that excessively persecuted Quakers (Brooks). 

	Trauma also had a great effect on the writings of Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne. When Kate Chopin was a child she went through the loss of her father in a railroad accident, her great-grandmother, and her half-brother who died during the Civil War. She references the rail road accident in "The Story of an Hour." In the story Mrs. Mallard's husband supposedly was killed a railroad disaster. When Nathaniel Hawthorne was a young child he went through the loss of his father of yellow fever at sea. The deaths they have experienced were an inspiration for their writings.

	The cultures of Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne had a large impact on the topics of their writing. Kate Chopin felt very strongly about the roles of women in society. She liked to be independent of her husband and not have to conform to the generic roles for women. The influence of women's independence can be seen in her story "The Story of an Hour." In the story she writes, "There would be no one to live for her during those coming years; she would live for herself. There would be no powerful will bending hers in that blind persistence with which men and women believe they have a right to impose a private will upon a fellow-creature" (Chopin). Nathaniel Hawthorne was raised strictly by Puritan beliefs. He often wrote about Puritan rulers who exercised their power in very harsh ways. The influence of his ancestors harsh Puritan beliefs can be seen in his story "Young Goodman Brown." In the story he writes, "I helped your grandfather, the constable, when he lashed the Quaker woman so smartly through the streets of Salem. And it was I that brought your father a pitch-pine knot, kindled at my own hearth, to set fire to an Indian village, in king Philip's war" (Hawthorne). 

	The upbringing of authors can have a considerable impact on their writings as adults. Certain events they go through can help to inspire their stories. The stories by Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne can be a direct correlation of their family life, the traumas they have encountered, and their different cultures. 

	





Works Cited 

"Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, stories." KateChopin.org, 				www.katechopin.org/biography/.

Brooks, Rebecca Beatrice . "The Life of Nathaniel Hawthorne." History of Massachusetts, 		historyofmassachusetts.org/nathaniel-hawthorne/.

"Kate Chopin. "The Story of an Hour", archive.vcu.edu/english/engweb/webtexts/hour/. Nathaniel Hawthorne Biography." Encyclopedia of World Biography, 					www.notablebiographies.com/Gi-He/Hawthorne-Nathaniel.html.

"Young Goodman Brown." Hawthorne, "Young Goodman Brown", andromeda.rutgers.edu/		~jlynch/Texts/younggoodmanbrown.html.



















