





		Is Faith an Absence of Thought?



From the beginning of time, man always wondered, was he alone in this world? Man would look up at the sky and see the sun come up and watch the sun come down. So of course man thought that he was ruled by something else. He saw the seasons changed and as they changed he would live his life. Much of his early life was then centered, an order that seem to come from somewhere else. This somewhere else grew into what many people now call a religion. Dictated by a god, whose caprices have been known to be exceptionally cruel, and exceptionally timed. Then the day came when man decided to take his destiny into his own hands. Given not to god, look to the horizon and start on his own way. In this paper we will walk both paths. 



In 1636, Anne Hutchinson, challenged the Puritan clergy and asserted her view of the “Covenant of Grace”. “As I do understand it, laws, commands, rules and edicts are for those who have not the light which makes plain the pathway. He who has God’s grace in his heart cannot go astray.” Per America’s Christian Leaders by Jay Rogers. By saying this, Anne Hutchison separated herself from the edicts of Puritanism’s Covenant of Works and was denounced as a heretic and banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The Puritans believed in  (the belief that God only chose a select number of people called the elect to be saved) and  (the elect could not resist His salvation). The Puritans thought that their religion was the only way to Heaven and that all aspects of life, both private and public, were to be seen through a biblical lens. Everyone had their place in society as dictated by God.  Those who dared to see beyond the limits of God’s ordained plan for them were treated harshly, as evidenced by Anne Hutchison or the twenty people executed during the Salem Witch Trials.



Many of the Founders of the United States of America were significantly influenced by the Enlightenment. Enlightenment philosophy stressed that liberty and equality were natural human rights that were bestowed at birth, and not endowed by a God. Thomas Jefferson, the author of the  put it succinctly in the preamble from the Declaration of Independence “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that ”. Jefferson admired a “rational” religion that promoted good works and civic virtue. He was contemptuous of much of orthodox Christianity as just so much superstition. Jefferson believed that a great deal of the gospels were invention. Perhaps the greatest irrationality of all, however, was the concept of the Trinity. As he wrote to James Smith: “The paradox that one is three and three but one is so incomprehensible to the human mind that no candid man can say he has any idea of it, and how can he believe what presents no idea? He, who thinks he does, deceives himself. He proves also that man, once surrendering his reason, has no remaining guard against absurdities the most monstrous, and like a ship without rudder is the sport of every wind. With such person’s gullibility, which they call faith, takes the helm from the hand of reason and the mind becomes a wreck.”

	

In conclusion, many people have asked if faith was an absence of thought. The true answer is depending on which of these paths you choose to follow. If you’re more comfortable in believing that god was everything and their puritan religion is the only way to find happiness in this world. God is the authority figure to run your life then the puritan way was the best for the choosing. However if you choose to be more comfortable with the idea of man thinking for themselves rather than have some god figure choose what they have to do in this world, then the Enlightenment was the best chose. Overall both philosophies are both correct answers to this question. 