Social Networking

	Social networking sites such as Facebook, are designed to help people connect with others. Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter make it easier to enhance a person’s social life because they can connect with people, immediate feedback and provide a replacement for social interaction.

	Social networking can enhance a person’s life because they can connect with more people at once. When people are having a face-to-face conversation, they usually cannot speak to more than five people at one time without rudely interrupting the other people. On social networking sites, people can have multiple side messages and response to various people at once within a short amount of time. When someone is typing, a person cannot cut them off.

	Social networking can also enhance a person's social life because they can get a quick response from a mass amount of people. If a person needed advice for a problem they have in their life, they could just update their status, and someone will reply. In the past, when I needed a recommendation, I have made a status update addressed it. Within minutes, I had my friends, family, and acquaintances all give their opinion. This helped me decide what to do. The times I have been in dire need of advice, people came to me recuse and helped me become more confident about my final decision.

	Social networking can enhance a young person's life because it can help them not feel so alone. Many people suffer from a mental illness or physical illness who cannot get out of their house every day. Everyone has days where they cannot get out of bed; these days are the times when people crave the most social interaction. People on social networking sites can help provide social communication to those who need it. This simple interaction can help save someone’s life.

	In my personal opinion, I believe social networking sites do more good than harm by helping improve the quality of a person’s life. Social networking can help improve a person’s life by allowing them to connect with people and get the daily social interaction they need to survive.