High School Writing vs. College Writing



Teachers in high school provide a good knowledge that they have earned through college and they care about their students,. But that's only for the beginning. They want to teach them a base of the language and push them to learn high level writing. There are many institutions that can drive you to get better and find your purpose. “In high school, you may have been taught to construct five-paragraph essays and other short forms of writing.”



High school English isn’t at the same level as college English, the writing is different because in college the idea is to reach a professional level. And between in high school the idea is to learn. The learning at the high school level is in a slow pace, but help students to write better and to guide them to college writing. “However, you need not be intimidated by this difference because that’s all it is: a different approach to writing.”

 

Basic things are taught in high school writing.”College writing sometimes uses the five-paragraph essay as a starting point, but often pushes students to break out of the limits imposed by such a rigid structure.” Writing can be difficult especially when you need to write a about specific thing in general.  The vocab and writing assignments through high school helps to be ready for college writing. Is important to make students learn how to show their work, and how to prevent errors in how to spot them. “However, you should also keep in mind that you are not only writing for an individual or group of readers, you are adding to a conversation within an academic field, and each field has its own conventions. Before you begin writing a paper, familiarize yourself with the disciplinary conventions for that particular class.”  



 Because writing is about thinking and generating ideas. Words need to make sense and create a good expression for: public, readers, teachers etc. everything depends what topic is being follow needing to respect the rules of English.

 

Writing in college requires more extended thinking and critical understanding of what the high school students think they do. Those who said college writing and the process is easy they had failed.”.The transition from high school writing to college writing can be daunting. First-year college students frequently struggle with this transition because college professors usually have different expectations regarding structure and argument than high school teachers.”

 

There was a point in my life when I asked myself if I will be able to write a good essay, college would give me the professional writing that I need . My class seems to be interesting we are talking and reading about how to get better in writing. If I understood writing at a very high level I would write the best essays for me, and my experienced teachers. Of course, I will do my best all the time and apply all the vocab and language I already learned. I do not deny my mistakes mostly all the time I still have to learn more. That's why I came to college because college will help me to write more and advance English.

 

At this point of the semester I reaffirm that I have gained progress because in my writing assignments I’m doing better. But it's not only that; my new English classes are teaching me how to be more persuasive. I call for apply my new writing and get more and better vocab.

 

The college writing demands a strong knowledge about English and how to persuade the people around you, it always will be a challenging thing. Being critical in writing is important as putting more ideas and verbs to have a writing that make sense. “Anything the library pays for through subscription service is generally an acceptable research source. Books and peer-reviewed journals are even better.”

 

In fact all the teachers that teach a language help student to make their life easy, and to teach them how writing should be done. High school writing is simply than college writing if we look the way our papers are grade. “In high school, you may have learned to include a thesis statement in your papers, usually somewhere near the end of the first paragraph. Most college writing also depends on thesis statements, but they may look very different from the statements you are used to seeing and writing.”





College can make anyone a persuasive writer because the list of things learned in college includes a lot of persuasiveness, once you start a class you would be learning the correct writing. That's what we as students can do better, make ideas, plans and be ready to learn. Decide to make extra time to read and practice writing. It's good to invest time on yourself to develop a professional attitude towards education. “Remember that writing is a process—one that will become more familiar to you as you gain experience.”

































Words Cited



Information adapted from the Temple University Writing Resource Center (http://www.temple.edu/writingctr/student_resources/college_v_hs.htm) and The University of Texas at Austin Writing Center (http://uwc.fac.utexas.edu)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



