In the late 1700’s, the controversy around religion and faith begin. Peoples beliefs are put to question and confusion spikes when philosophers begin to interrogate the norms of people in America. Thomas Paine, a self-taught writer, political activist, and philosopher, writes the “Age of Reason” to share his revelations pertaining to religion and his profession of faith. When reading this text, his opinions, that are contrary to mine, inflicted confusion and frustration. 

Thomas Paine’s investigation of theology raises various questions for me, which is where my feelings of confusion begin. In the first chapter, Thomas Paine immediately addresses that what he writes about, is a subject that he knows will induce a lot of controversies, although he feels it is his duty to introduce his opinions to the world. A foreign idea that was evident in the text is that he does not believe in any kind of church. As a roman catholic, I have gone through many sacraments and form my morals and values solely on the belief that my religion and my God will guide my life. On the contrary, when Thomas says that his mind is his church, it is hard for me to understand how someone can live without God to look to for guidance and without a bible to base morals off of. In my opinion, science and logic are important, but Paine’s notion that they guide his life is unclear to me. 

Furthermore, Paine implies that religion is based off of fictitious stories that are derived from “hearsay” situations. In my opinion, this is frustrating, due to the fact that these stories are what I have been told to believe my entire life. For example, the story of The Virgin Mother Mary is one that Thomas Paine believes is false. If that story is made up, then that would mean that Jesus Christ was never born and the story that drives Christianity is not true. For someone to say that Jesus is pretend, is very frustrating. To continue, Paine explicitly criticizes the Christian church. He believes that money has driven the church to corruption and he also believes that the Christian Church has always wanted to acquire political power. Contrary to Paine’s beliefs, I trust that the church is a pure and peaceful place that is used to pray and to cleanse the soul. He propose that the church has ulterior motives. All in all, my frustration was exposed when Thomas Paine evidently besmirches the name of Christianity. 

To conclude, although everyone is legally allowed to express their own opinions, sometimes the opinions of others can bring out emotions in people who do not agree with their foreign ideas. Thomas Paine introduced the idea of Deism and Theology to America. A country where Christianity was prominent. His confessions are important in history and should be acknowledged and examined. Although his ideas are significant, Thomas Paine’s writing “The Age of Reason” left me with misunderstanding and anger due to my concrete belief in my religion.
