Ficion and Poetry are two categories that have a vast number of differences but also similarities. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines fiction as "something invented by the imagination or feigned; specifically: an invented story." While Merriam-Webster states that poetry is "writing that formulates a concentrated imaginative awareness of experience in language chosen and arranged to create a specific emotional response through meaning, sound, and rhythm." We can easily see that the biggest similarity they have is that they are both forms of writing. Along with that is they both use literary devices, and are used to explain, persuade, or entertain. 

When reading fiction or poetry we know that they are both ways to express an author's thoughts or feelings through writing. Whether the author displays their thoughts in a beautiful love poem or a sweet fairytale, it is just the structure that makes them different. They will display the same point that the author was trying to get to. Fiction comes across as stories just like poetry tells a story using certain structures and rhyme. 

Another common similarity poetry and fiction have is that they both use literary devices. Some literary devices that could be shared by poetry and fiction are metaphors, similes, and assonance. Literary devices are a huge factor in both poetry and fiction. It makes the writing more interesting and coherent. Literary devices shared by poets and authors show us how they feel in more than cryptic ways. 

Lastly, in both poetry and fiction works there is one common goal. This is to make the reader see their point, entertain the reader, or explain something. Even though there are different ways to show their point the reader for both fiction and poetry, the concept is the same. The poetry just may take more analyzing and thought. We know that reasons for these works are the same- to persuade, entertain, or explain. 

Fiction and poetry are a lot more similar in ways we don’t even think of at times. They share many characteristics that seem small but are imperative. The way the literary works is structured matters not. It is the content of the literature that makes it all the same and a variation of a theme. They are all works of literature, use literary devices, and entertain/persuade/explain regardless of the structure.








Works Cited

“Fiction.” Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, .

“Poetry.” Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/poetry.

Taylor, Isabella. "How are prose and poetry similar?" 10 Jun2016,            are-prose-and-poetry-similar. Accessed 19 April 2018



