Is Faith an Absence of Thought

  

Faith is a relationship, not a feeling or thought process. Faith comes from the word of God himself. These are essential mannerisms of the Puritan ideology. They have accepted the reality that God has shown grace and mercy in their lives. In the perspective of a Puritan, faith would not be an absence of thought. Faith comes from trusting God and understanding that He has a guiding hand over the life of His children. God entrusts them to live according to the scriptures so that the Holy Spirit will do His will to purify the church. Mary Rowlandson is an example of how a puritan had faith through the struggles of life. She turned to the Bible so that she had faith that no matter what her outcomes or circumstances were, she could believe the outcome was God’s will. She did this because of her God-given wisdom and knowledge that his will was to be fulfilled throughout her life.  If faith were an absence of thought, what do people put their faith in when fleshly and world things do not go as planned. Faith is knowing that it is a gift from God so that you can trust him in whatever circumstance (Ephesians 2:8). If a puritan truly believes and has faith in the God, then they believe every word of scripture is true. Scripture says that God has given us choices in our life but to also remember he established them, “The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps (Proverbs 16:9)”. This scripture stresses the emotional side of religion such as knowing that God orders your steps. Faith is the knowledge that God has His Spirit overflowing into His children so that they will trust Him in whatever tribulation shall come their way. 

In the perspective of a person who lived during the Enlightenment Era it was sometimes thought that knowledge and enlightenment gave people the best way to know their own lives and faith was sometimes thought irrelevant.  Therefore, in their knowledge faith is an absence of thought. The people of the Enlightenment Era used a metaphysical way of allowing their beliefs to turn towards a thought process developed for the sake of their flesh. People such as Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Paine suggested that it was more convenient to reason than it was to have emotions about God. Faith was in their ability to have more reason and logic in life than a feeling. This Deist Ideology permitted them to have faith in the power of thought rather than a higher power. Such as, Benjamin Franklin’s major theme in his writing was in the interest of the individual and more concerned on bettering yourself, resembling on concentrating on the perfectibility of man. Also, during the enlightenment era, science inquiry also came to surface that had contradicted many things that people trusted. Therefore, in the perspective of a member of the enlightenment era, faith would be considered an absence of thought.



