Technology is an important part of society today; without it, many people would not be able go about their day-to-day activities in an easy fashion. Along with technology, comes social media: a way to interact with others via multiple websites on the internet. Many use these websites to contact friends, family, coworkers, and even strangers for any purpose that pertains to that individual. The internet, with these social medias, is an excellent source of communication and connection, and it acts as a virtual extension to one’s social life of reality. However, multiple adolescents and emerging adults immerse their overall general life within social networking due to the fact that they have been in touch with this type of technology for a long time.

	Technological advancements are always booming in society and have been since the computer and cell phone were created. Cell phones and computers were once an uncommon thing, but now it is difficult to find many people in developed countries without both objects. It is such a commonplace now, that children receive these items early in their lives. Ever since the beginning, these children, adolescents, and emerging adults adapt to the technology that surrounds and engulfs them, and now they have a sense of freedom. That freedom for most young people is the sense that not anyone that knows them personally can see what they are doing on the internet; they are able to post, reblog, or send anything that they want to anybody. With these social medias, people are losing actual social skills and manners. Instead of verbally telling someone about your day, people say “just check my story on Snapchat” or “just look at my Instagram feed”. The barrier of the screen of a phone or computer gives people the sense of comfort of “I cannot possibly make a fool of myself and still have repercussions, because I do not actually see this person in real life,” but this thought is developing a version of social anxiety. People are now afraid to interact with others in the prospect of something going wrong. Social media is diminishing skills that everyone needs, real life connections.

	Enhancing one’s general life through virtual communication is fine; however, completely enveloping one’s entire social experience in technology is stunting the growth and development of necessary skills that one needs in order to live in the real world. The blame of this cannot fall to just the young people for abusing this power of technology. The parents and older people that place these unnecessary devices in the arms of inexperienced children and adolescents are also to blame. There is no one that is restraining this tremendous freedom that is in the hands of these young people, so they are able to abuse it as such. Everyone is to blame for the abundant problem that is replacing the reality of social life.