Young people today spend an enormous amount of time on their phones. Spending so much time on social-networking sites can increase a young person’s social life and serve as a replacement for their social life. Social-networking sites can allow someone to be more social on the internet than they are in real social situations, it can broaden someone’s social life by connecting them with new people that they otherwise would not have met, and it can cause young people to only be interested in their phones rather than connecting with those around them. 

	Having an account on social media can allow someone to be more social than they are in person. They could not have many friends at school, but on platforms like Instagram and Twitter, they could have a large number of followers. Someone could have thousands of subscribers on Youtube but be an outcast or be bullied for it at school. Social networking sites can allow someone to be more social on the internet than where they live and go to school.

	Social media can connect people with common interests or passions from all over the world who otherwise would have never met. Social media can create long-lasting bonds and friendships with people who have many of the same interests. I have known people that have met friends on Instagram that live on the other side of the United States. 

	Social media can also drag someone’s attention away from real moments and connecting with people. I have seen family members, couples on dates, and people in movie theaters who spend more time on their phones instead of paying attention to the events around them and the people they are with. It can decrease someone’s ability to connect with others and have a good time in real life situations. 

	  Young people these days spend a great deal of time checking their phones or posting pictures on their social media accounts. Using a social media account can allow people to branch out socially in ways that they could not in their real social life. It can also draw the attention away from others and everyday situations. 