How Personal Experiences Shape our Writing

	As humans, our life events inevitably shape us. Whether intended or not the things we go through in our time on Earth bend and mold us to make us the people we are. While this principle applies to all people, it is especially evident in writers. The events in their life bleed into their writings. Their writing style and content is fueled by their background and it is shown clearly in their work. Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne are both great examples of how life events shape their writing. Chopin and Hawthorne’s life experiences appear in their writing through setting,  major events and tragedies, and through the abstract or long-term effects that major events have in their life.

	The setting of a story is one of its most important characteristics, and many times it is an integral part in the overall meaning of the story. In many stories, the setting is very detailed and plays a crucial role in the development of characters and the overall plot. This is one reason why many authors choose to right about settings that they are very familiar with and grew up in. Nathaniel Hawthorne is one of the most profound examples of this. Nathaniel Hawthorne was born in Salem, Massachusetts and lived in Salem off and on until 1850 (Whitney). It comes as no surprise that most of Hawthorne’s works are set in Salem, including “Young Goodman Brown.” The town of Salem, Massachusetts played a crucial role in the development of Nathaniel Hawthorne, and because of that, Salem appears in Hawthorne’s writing. This is one example of how authors will write about settings they are very familiar with.

 	Life is full of exciting change, tragedy, and many other major events that shape us as individuals. These events shape the personality of writers and often will appear in their stories. Writers will almost always write about personal experiences in abstract ways, but sometimes, these personal experiences appear in more concrete ways. Kate Chopin provides an excellent example of this in her work, “The Story of an Hour.” According to her Biography, Kate Chopin’s father was killed in a railroad accident in 1855, and her Husband died in 1882. In “the Story of an Hour,” Chopin wrote that “when intelligence of the railroad disaster was received, with Brently Mallard’s name leading the list of ’killed’.” Brently Mallard was the husband of Mrs. Mallard, the main character. Chopin very clearly in this story wrote about the tragedies that she experienced earlier in life, giving us a great example of how major events can appear in concrete ways in an author’s works.

	Major events and tragedies often show up in obvious and concrete ways in a writer’s stories, but sometimes if we dig a little deeper we can find some abstract effects of these events appearing in their stories. One less evident example comes from Nathaniel Hawthorne. In Hawthorne’s biography, Hawthorne was always disgusted by the history of his hometown regarding the Salem witch trials, and before he left Salem, he grew very distasteful with Salem, even going as far as to call it "that abominable city." This disdain towards Salem could be explanation for why he uses a negative tone towards the town in his story, “Young Goodman Brown.” In the end of the story, Young Goodman Brown became very disdainful towards the prominent leaders of the city after discovering their true sinfulness and deepest secrets. Kate Chopin offers another example of the abstract effects of tragedy influencing her writing. After her husband died, Chopin moved back to St. Louis, where she found much more opportunity and freedom than she did living in Louisiana. This newfound freedom could have been inspiration for “The Story of an Hour,” where Mrs. Mallard starts to discover the freedom she has as a supposed widow, repeatedly saying “Free! Body and soul free!” while processing the news of her husband’s death. Chopin and Hawthorne were both excellent examples of authors that write abstractly about the effects of events and tragedies in their life.

	Life is full of ups and downs, change, excitement, tragedy and so many other experiences that shape us as human beings. Our personalities in both our social life and our writing are shaped by the experiences we have growing up. Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin both offer fantastic examples of how personal experiences and seasons in life show up in their writing through setting, concrete examples, and abstract effects of life events. We can all learn something from how these authors let their personal experiences shape their writing.



 




Works Cited

"Biography." KateChopin.org. The Kate Chopin International Society, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2018.

Chopin, Kate. “The Story of an Hour.” The Bedford Introduction to Literature. Ed. Michael Meyer. 11th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2016. Print.

Hawthorne, Nathaniel. “Young Goodman Brown.” The Bedford Introduction to Literature. Ed. Michael Meyer. 11th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2016. Print.

Whitney, Terri. "Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne." Hawthorne in Salem. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2018