Is Faith Absence of Thought?”

	As a Puritan I am a firm believer in the strict religious discipline of the church and God’s word. I was recently asked the question “Is Faith Absence of Thought?” and my response is that, it is. We as Puritans believe the man is inherently corrupt, since we as humans are born in sin the only way to be purified is through God. I believe that power does not co0moe from just the individual, but the power of the congregation. Faith is the key to our salivation, not simply good works. There is belief in the supernatural grace of all of God’s work. So yes, it is absence of thought because miracles do occur, and you cannot explain that, nor attempt to explain why the lord works in the ways that he does. We do not understand these things, because we are not meant to know them. All is as the lord commands it.  

The other day I was asked the question of “Is Faith Absence of Thought” and as an intellectual and a scholar I was not hesitate in responding that yes, it is. Shall we blindly follow the supernatural force of blind will rather than thinking with logic and reason to explain why the things around us are the way that they are? Shall we limit and not pursue the scientific reasoning of the things that happen, and instead simply saying that it is the work of some supernatural force. Blind Faith is how the church does not allow its congregation growth or to ask questions, once something happens they are not permitted to ask “why?”, but instead are forced to agree without question. The church would have us believe that we are all corrupt and incapable of improvement without faith and the power of God. Yet they do not think of the power of the mind with logic and reason at its forefront. The perfectibility of man is possible and very much achievable if he is willing to think for himself and follow the path of intellectuality. The power of reason is much stronger than the power of divine authority. Why should we limit our knowledge to just to which the church preaches? The human mind is capable of growth and understanding of anything without the blind guidance of “faith”. 