The Thought of Faith



We are beyond lucky to exist, blessed even, to take in air. We are fortunate enough to say that God has blessed us with the breath in our lungs and a life borrowed. However, to live a life dedicated around the faith in our Lord is the most beautiful gift of all. One might ask, “is faith an absence of thought?” and of course, the proper response to that is no. The whole reason to have faith in the unseen is because of someone higher, mightier, and much more righteous than we are THOUGHT of us. The fact of our very existence branches from a thought, the reason we are not worthy is from a thought, the reason we are saved stems from a thought of love and light and grace. And with grace being higher than mercy, something that also doesn’t make sense to have in our case as believers and sinners that happened to somehow steal the author of galaxies and breather of stars, it makes sense to think that we are to live according to Him, to walk steps of faith, and to give all back in the name of the creator of thoughts itself.

 

We are beyond lucky to exist. How rare and how beautiful and how absurd to think that riding off our existence is to be given back to an unknown, unseen deity from which we have never seen but have only heard stories. The universe itself moves like clockwork, not needing a helping hand. Science has shown the steps to who are, the reasons we breathe. Faith lacks logic, reason, and thought. We should put our “faith” in those appointed to lead and guide us. We should put our “faith” in ourselves and our “faith in the thoughts of the future and the betterment of all men. Instead of a revival in a church there should be a revival of the mind. Religion is stirring the pot of eternal torture and misery, we have heard of those slaughtered in the name of faith. That does not feel like someone was thinking at all. One might compare faith to theory or theory to faith, but at least one can investigate and gather information for a theory, you can see faith like you can see the wind.