Reflection

My experience so far as a student in Professor Smith second semester English 5B class has been great so far. I’ve been learning new techniques and adjusting to new writing heights, such as using rhetorical strategies. I am still learning how to use rhetorical strategies into my essay by trying to understand the concepts and behind rhetoric. However, trying to understand rhetoric was difficult for me, so I decided to compare rhetoric strategies with martial arts training. During the process, I realized that rhetorical writing and a roundhouse kick were quite similar. Although rhetoric is a style of writing and a roundhouse is a style of kicking they both require steps to be successful. Rhetoric has many components that consists of ethos, pathos, and logos while the roundhouse consists of balance, timing, and measurement. I learned that to perform a strong roundhouse kick you must be able to practice the technique before successfully executing the kick, without properly learning it you can damage your body. On the other hand, to perform a strong essay I studied the principle of rhetoric by the daily exercise and learning the definition of ethos, pathos, and logos. The analogy between rhetorical strategies and martial arts training lets you understand that practice makes perfect. Rhetoric is a concept of writing that tries to persuade my audience with the most effective means as possible.

During the second semester, the lectures from Professor Smith taught me new ideas and thus made me become a flexible writer. These lessons helped me utilize our valuable time in class to improve upon my writing. Something I liked about the class was the initial goal of it was to successfully improve upon the performance of our writing. These lectures that Professor Smith gave to us ultimately made me into a more confident and outgoing writer.  

What I mean by flexible, is being able to latch on to “creativeness” and recognizing that it is a part of my work. In addition, it also means that I must be confident in my writing. I can ensure that my writing has however, I must note that I must have a vital component to reach the expectation of my writing. This component is being able to have in mind that to execute an effective essay I must first understand the basics of writing. For example, a thesis, intro, body, and conclusion are all important aspects of writing especially for the basics of writing. My master once told me, “Sam to become a fearsome martial artist you must practice the basic stretch more often work on your stamina and your lower belt kicks.” What my master told me really related to the second semester which made me improve the quality of my learning and writing abilities.

During the second semester, we talked about professional writers to see the difference between their individual writing styles and analyzing how they grab their reader's attention. This reminds me of my martial art class because I remember watching and studying my instructor and my master sparring. I read the way they moved and the mind games they played to score their points. It was like a chain reaction and it was amazing to watch because I was able to predict their next move. However, viewing the exercise from a professional made me feel quite the same knowing that I would be able to latch on to my confidence to bring in the use of pathos, logos, and ethos to latch onto my audience’s attention.

During our days for instruction, I believed it was simple, trying to follow the concept of understanding was the easy part. However, when we started the actual project, it was a totally different story. The first essay this semester was not hard or easy but was quite challenging in my opinion. Feedback that I received from the first essay wasn’t the biggest problem, but I needed to step up my game. My previous essay needed to be material that was college ready or in other words professional.  Here’s some feedback I received, “I don't know where the essay's thesis is located”, “You need to make your readers know where it is exactly”. After receiving comments that talked about my essay I would hope to improve upon my mistakes on the next draft.

My second point, was that the essay prompt was quite confusing. It seemed to be about both the car and the ad at the same time. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿Here are some comments that Professor Smith left in my previous essay, ﻿﻿﻿“Is this about the car or about the ad? Third, you need to fix the grammar” (Smith). Before reading the feedback, I thought to myself, did I even write a good essay. However, after viewing his feedback I understood that I was not meeting the requirements for a exceptional paper yet. The bottom line I was quite disappointed in myself. The feedback I received was honest, and I really thanked Professor Smith for his honesty so that next time I would know what to improve upon. In another example, I learned the deeper meaning behind a lesson from the shore to the ocean floor. Professor Smith wanted me to progress and perform better as a student, by setting my mind into what we learned previously. I wanted to make sure that I would use all the components, so I could establish a strong and meaningful essay. Relating my essay to my martial art class really helped me reflect off my perception of learning. My master once told me, “Sam you must remember to follow the basics and while at it be flexible to process in the new technique.”

Now I understand that martial art and writing relate to me because they helped me perform as a stronger individual. Martial arts helped me utilize a strong effective roundhouse kick by having balance, timing, and measurement. To perform a strong effective essay, I must be able to capture my audience attention by using ethos, pathos, and logos. In terms of context writing and martial arts are two complete opposites, but they ultimately both help me find my ultimate goal.





























Retaking the Game

There is an advertisement by Nissan that begins with one it’s most infamous car model the Nissan GTR. The GTR is seen making a dramatic entrance by drifting fiercely through the streets of the city. The driver behind the wheel seems to not care about the car, abusing the it’s abilities to the max. The Nissan GTR’s power is displayed throughout the commercial. Tensions rise to the beating of drums slowly rising, then the spokesman speaks, “I play the game.” Throughout the commercial fonts mention different timelines of the GTR history. The first part of the cars history is revealed as stated in, “1991 Bathurst, Australia” which was a historical event with the GTR winning numerously and taking the checkered flag. Another scene showed many news reporters reporting and recording other competitors. Several different car manufacturers were filled with anger and rage due to the GTR’s impressive abilities. The second piece of history states, “Shook the elites” crushing new lap records making other elites lose their minds. The Nissan producers were so proud and relieved of how well the Nissan GTR performed. The results made many extremely impressed of how well the vehicle performed on the track. The GTR socially impacted the street as the spoken person said, “Broke every underground”. It basically meant that the GTR dominated every street races. The cars abilities showed how much pride to how the GTR is unbeatable. The GTR uses facts that seem to show audiences the truth. The GTR is statistically proven to dominate underground events such as racing, and car shows. Lastly, the last scene of the Nissan GTR advertisement states, “Guess what, it's all going to happen again.” then it showed 570 horsepower, and below it says, “Embrace the Myth”. Nissan specifically stated these words to made it clear that they are at the top and no one can knock them down.

This commercial was different compared to many other automobile industries commercials because Nissan was able to convince me. It psychologically convinced by the history and priceless information that is captured to grab the audience attention. Therefore, I believe that Nissan made an incredible job with their GTR commercial. One of the reasons why Nissan made this ad, was to also to purposely invite people or audiences from all classification of cars type like tuner, exotic, and muscle to get involved into the GTR’s movement.

Now I am going to review the advertisement critically about the GTR and evaluating the commercial. Sure, Nissan did get many fans and haters attention by first introducing the quote “I Play the Game” and seeing the GTR taking the checkered flag also seeing that there was not a single car behind it. It even has a head to head race with another car next to the GTR. The implication of it, means that the GTR was just too damn fast and nobody was able to keep up with the GTR. In conclusion, the reason why was it so attention grabbing and why fans love, and haters hate it? The GTR has is just a historical vehicle that has won over 49 Consecutive time without a lost and was the first Japanese car to win the Bathurst.

Having a car named after an infamous beast in Japan who destroyed skyscrapers called Godzilla, made other car manufacturer jealous. According to the advertisement, the second scene showed other sport cars manufacturers very unhappy due to their facial expression. I noticed that it gave a vibe that their blood was boiling with frustration from the other cars representative could not mention any negative things about the GTR, but all they could do is yell. The advertisement was mostly skimming through the stories about the car lifetime achievements. The advertisement is not specifically talking about the car until the end which only mention one thing, the horse power. Scripted to believe that yes, it was a horrible advertisement as in selling the product while analyzing the textual advertisement. This made me think that Nissan was just selling the name and not selling the car.

While evaluating the spokesperson, he randomly stated some words to make it cool and spicy to play with the audience's emotion. Note that the spokesperson was not just any person, it was a British spokesperson. In my opinion a British man voices creates rarity and a hint of classiness. To study critically in depth the tone the spokesperson sets a tone like if it was an intimidating voice. Why is that you may ask? This in turn make the audience mentally creating a strong desire of wanting the car. Not knowing that the spokesperson did not make any reference towards the product or even mention any kind of specs of what the GTR have in store such as transmission, suspension, and engine. But only to glide on the surface of the water. Towards the end of the advertisement, Nissan decided to present the message, “Embrace the Myth”. Concluding in a powerful message to manipulate the commercial.

Now I am going to talk about the GTR and state that the Nissan GTR is one of the world’s fastest sports cars on the sports car spectrum. The GTR can reach a top speed of 195 mph in 2.9 sec from 0-60 mph, producing 570 horsepower and having 467 feet of torque. The GTR is the ultimate true performance vehicle designed to overrule its competitors. A car that can be upgraded to its own desire with so many upgrades available in the aftermarket, the Nissan GTR can establish its very own magnificent beast. A beast or what is known as “Godzilla” was built to destroy the Porsche 911, which set a record of 7:08.679 at the Nürburgring race track. The GTR was well known for turners because of the dynamics upgrades, whether a stylish cruiser car, or a drag strip monster. Tuners are people who love to tune cars and turn them into the crazy powerful vehicle. The GTR impacted the social world by becoming the number 1 on the race tracks with 50 consecutive winning. Also, along with countless drag strip wins, including many street races. The GTR was able to influence all kinds of different racers, while impacting the social world and its fans. It all adds up to show how the legendary GTR really is and how it deserves the name Godzilla.

The revving exhaust and the natural loudness that the GTR produces as stock exhaust system in the advertisement is an aspiration for Nissan lovers and imports. Not many import cars will have a loud exhaust system. Having a stock exhaust that sounds like a level 2 upgrade in a factory stock car for a tuner is a win-win situation. The sound that is projected from the GTR engine sounds like a roaring beast or as other people say Godzilla’s roar moving through the streets creating the tension of desire convincing people to want the car more. The screeching tires are also music to the ear of tuners.

The commercial sets up a focus point to show how powerful the GTR really is. The performance that is happening in the advertisement shows the car, sliding, upshifting, downshifting, and lastly the voice of the exquisite British man voice, making it seem “professional”. All these components increase the tuners hearts, and souls to have a greater pride to represent the tuners pride. Making the Nissan an ultimate weapon to win races yet it is also highly influenced from the movies serious Fast and the Furious, as the car considered to be sought as a leader, unpredictable, and wise because of Paul Walker. Paul Walker was considering to be the Fast one in the series of the movie, why because the name Fast came from the Skyline GTR and the Supra GT. While Vin Diesel took the name Furious due to give back to the classical cars or American cars. The social world for the Nissan GTR is very thicken with pride and strong fans and will continue to thrive to have the title called Godzilla.

Many fans love the advertisement commercial, one fan even commented saying “Jesus is Back”- by Maverick Mangoin. As he said, the car is no longer a vehicle, but now to be lord or savior. This comment from a fan is setting forth the GTR to must be love and vital because it establishes a lord behind this car.

In my opinion, Nissan did a horrible job at marketing the car here was no factual pricing and why was it different from other car. To support this factor, Jack Solomon’s essay explain about the different type of ads and how what ways effectively defined the principle of ads and considering that these ads are a type of non-product relative or consider to be on desires and manipulating. According to Jack Solomon, he mentions, “Appealing to our sebaceous emotion rather to our conscious intellect, advertising is designed to exploit the discontentment fostered by the American dream, the constant desire for social success and the material rewards that accompany it” (525). On the other hand, to manipulate and sell the name out there for the world Nissan did great to touch base with our emotion, having many logical winnings in race and most important just the sides commentary that did the full work.

In conclusion, the Nissan commercial was a success to make business and to manipulate the audience’s mindset to have desires toward the car. It simply did well as a competitive ad raising some tension and awareness to other manufacturers to watch out and be prepare. By covering historical event winnings to establish credibility, then moving on to marketing the GTR by how well it performed during the advertisement. This emotionally made the audience want the car even more. However, the advertisement did not touch base with any pricing or the specs of the car, but rather about bragging rights and fan service.






Works Cited

“American Paradox.” Master of Desires: The Culture of American Advertising, by Jack Solomon, pp. 524–534.

Person. “The History of the Nissan GT-R.” Road & Track, Road & Track, 8 Oct. 2017,

Ziegler, Chris. “The 2017 Nissan GT-R Is a More Civilized, More Powerful Godzilla.” The Verge, Chris Ziegler, 23 Mar. 2016, www.theverge.com/2016/3/23/11289778/nissan-gt-r-announced-new-york-auto-show-2016.

“2017 Nissan GTR.” 2017 Nissan GTR, NISSAN, 5 Oct. 2016,.







