Today young people thrive on social media, such as Facebook. When we talk about these sites, one question occurs: Do these social media sites enhance social life or serve as a substitute for a “real” social life? These social media sites enhance one’s social life by helping people connect with new people, share memories, and stay connected with old friends.

	Social networking sites let the person select the friends they choose to be connected with. By doing this, it lets the person over the account take control of who sees his or her account, or what they post on it. Also, these sites will recommend people for you to follow or friend because you either have similar interest, or you share mutual friends. This helps people meet others that they may have never connected with outside of the social site. Some people who connected this way have received better jobs, married the person they connected with, or gained life-long friendships.

	In addition, these sites let people share memories from their life. These memories can be from the past or the present. It can be in the form of a picture or piece of writing. There are many ways that these memories can be shared on social media sites. Some people may say that social media can become a source of bullying one another, but the person being bullied has the authority to delete, block, and report the bully. This is even similar to dealing with a bully outside of a social media site. 

	Lastly, these sites create a way for old friends and family to stay connected, while seeing what is happening in his or her lives, regardless of where they transition in life. I have friends that I went to high school with that I do not speak to as often as I once did, but due to social media, I am still connected in their life by seeing pictures and posts about their life events that I have missed. Even though we live in different places, we still feel connected to each of our friend’s lives. It is as close to our old friendship/reality that we will ever get again.

	When I am asked about the effect of social media on a person’s social life, I believe that social media enhances it. It enhances our lives because you can make new connections, share memories, and keep up with old friends. Without social media, the world would not be as connected as it is now, and I believe it creates a positive effect on a person’s social life.