
	Thomas Paine says some harsh things about religion in his book “The Age of Reason”. While they wouldn’t be too controversial by todays standards, for the age that it was written, it sent a large shockwave throughout the colonies. In a society of primarily protestant Anglo Saxons, reading something as strongly the opposite would also send some shockwaves down my spine as well had I been there. 

Let’s get one thing straight though, Paine isn’t atheist and doesn’t drag the belief in a God across the ground or anything, he is simply saying that the organized religion is corrupt. Is that not what the pilgrims fled England for? To get away from corruption and pursue religious freedom? So, this belief was hard for the colonists, but only because they were on the receiving end of it this time. I would say the strongest emption that experienced was probably surprise. Not so much as surprise that he said it, but rather surprise and admiration for being so vocal about his beliefs and not showing any signs of remorse for speaking what he believed. 

I am not one who is quick to anger over an opinion or belief that is fundamentally different from mine, but I will say that I do respect someone who is very vocal in their beliefs. I was happy to see him say some similar things, to those that I believe, but however I was also intrigued by some of the point that he stated. For instance, he mentions how there are so many religions that say that they get their doctrines from the same people (Moses, God himself), yet they are all different from each other. I think that he makes fair points with those statements, he just simply uses logic and draws conclusions. I agree with the concepts of drawing conclusions from scientific reasoning and not believing everything that you hear as gold. People who believe everything that they fed are very unwise. You should always question everything that you hear and read and draw your own conclusions. Even with something as heavy handed as religion, you should make sure that you are receiving something pure and valid. Always make sure that you are receiving something pure and not something that is nonpure and corrupt. I feel happy seeing people question their surroundings. 