Diagnostic Essay Final Draft



Our societies social lives have been taken over since social media has come out to the world. Some cannot go five without checking to see what is going on, on Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter. Some would say that people have lost their social skills in real life because of how much they use social media. It is sad to think that our world has evolved to being so addicted to something that is full of drama and false news. Everyone is guilty in some way of being addicted to using their phones for too much media. 

	First off, some believe that social media helps your social life. In some cases, it can; such as the friend you had in high school moved to the other side of the world and that is the only way you can keep in touch with that person. It also can help someone find a family member that he or she has never met in their life time but has heard about from older family members. Also, it can help set up private groups for family, school, and work reunions or any other big events. Social media reflects on more on the younger generation rather than the older. It could take a younger person all of five minutes to find someone on Facebook or any other connecting website, but for an older person it could take much longer because they were not grown up in the “social media generation.” Younger people can send an instant message and get a reply in seconds rather than some older people still like to send letter and use an actual phone to call to get their answers, which could take longer. 

	Secondly, everywhere you go one can look around where that person is and see people on social media anywhere glued to their phones. It has just become people’s life styles. People never look up from their phones to have a real meaningful conversation, especially at the dinner table. Say a family goes out for dinner at a nice restaurant, someone can look over at their table and guaranteed almost all the family members are on social media. Some families have a no cell phone rule at the table, so that they can talk to one another without any interruptions. Society has defiantly lost all social skills that older generations taught because of the impact of social media. People should really make a bigger deal about having more of a social life than a “phone life” like what is happening to our society. If all social media was shut down today the world would have no idea what to do without it. 

	Lastly, people hide behind what they put on social media as a front to make them seem that they have the “perfect life” but, life is much different once you put down your phone and really talk to someone. People make fake post and news all the time just to get a laugh out of someone because they know that some dummy will believe it. People believe what they read on social media more than they do by someone telling that person the truth. People are always saying “did you see what was on so and so’s Facebook today?” and using that as their topic to talk. Some use social media as their everyday connection to the world, rather than talking to someone face to face. It is easier to send a message over a phone that is much harder to say in person because the world today has made us where society is scared to tell something to someone to their face. We are worried about hurting someone’s feelings. Such as breaking up with someone is easier to do by just sending a text message, rather than talking face to face. Social media has taken a toll over today’s generations and threw all their social skills out the window. 

	In conclusion, people’s social lives are corrupted forever because of society’s favorite new toy call social media. Sometimes it can be a good thing to connect with many people at one time, but on the other hand it has destroyed our livelihood of social skills. Our world is constantly changing, and this change has gotten a little bit out of hand. Maybe one day people’s social skills will learn to get better, but for now everyone will just stare at their phones. 

