 Diagnostic Essay
	There have been many debates about young people consistently using social networking sites. Even though many have been against them, these sites can also help improve social life. They can be used to broadcast news around the world, connect people who could be close together or far away, and allow people to advertise a group or business they may have created. 

Social networking sites, such as Facebook and Instagram, have a news feed page that shows what somebody has posted. Several posts contain the latest news that many people may not see on television. Any of these sites can be accessed anywhere at any time. Instead of having a post in one area, for example a newspaper, people from any place in the world can have the opportunity to read the posts.

The social sites can allow people from any distance to connect instantly with one another. For instance, I often use Snapchat to talk to a family member in Colorado and the messages send in only seconds. Using the sites can greatly reduce the amount of time it would take if someone were to send a letter in the mail. Groups and organizations can also be made quickly using the sites. A groups’ information could easily be recommended to many individuals over the internet. Many of the sites will often allow new members to suggest the group to a friend through a text or email. 

New and old businesses can have the option to advertise sales through social media. They will often have many social media accounts that allow people to be notified about a promotion the business will be offering. By using this method, people will save time instead of waiting for a newspaper ad arriving every week. The business can also have an option of sending text messages to subscribers to also spread out any other promotions that they may have.

Although social networking can be time consuming and a distraction to many young people, it may also enhance their lives. With the new and upcoming sites, it is allowing many more people the access they need to stay connected in the world such as advertising a business, staying in touch with family and friends over any distance, or receive news in any part of the world in seconds.