Issues in American Education

	Education is very important for everyone, you can't get a job without a high school diploma or a college degree. So we expect that when we graduate from high school all the classes we took should in some way should help us in the real world. Well in the readings of Jonathan Kozol and Kate McGee we can see how the role of education is portrayed in some schools. The schools are just trying to rush the kids out but not really taking the time to help them just putting them in random classes or just stacking their classes so they can pass class they already know they are going to fail. 

Kate McGee talks about Ballou, a high school where every student graduated and got into college In her article “What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College,”.  The article revolves around the subject talking about how did the school do it to make sure every student graduated and got into college even with the students record of high absences, low grades and the programs that they offered these students to graduate on time. In Jonathan Kozol article “ Fremont High School,” this a school that can use a lot more but has less with the unnecessary classes that don't have to do with the student future career and have a harder time to do better in school with substitute teachers all the time, and no access to the library. Both of these schools have their issues in different ways and these others pinpoint  just what is wrong with the system in theses two schools.

Most of the students that graduated in the class or 2017 had a large amount of absences it wasn’t that they weren't going to school but more like they were just skipping class or didn't want to show up. McGee states that “Half of the graduates missed more than three months of school last year, unexcused.” (Nov.18 ,2017). When students miss this much class they are usually sent a letter that they have to go to school, but for some it took that point for them to go to class others still didn’t care. They would mostly all just go to the gym and just hang out there. ”She says her students were often chronically absent, but the gym was always full. Students skipping other classes would congregate there,”(Nov.18, 2017) according to a teacher named William who is a P.E teacher at Ballou. Some teachers don’t even know their students because they don't attend class and with them not attending it drops their grade and the students come in asking for make up work. “Brokenborough says some students just simply do not want to attend class and come to expect makeup work” (Nov. 18, 2017). The teachers felt like it wasn't really fair to just give them make up work because then they would think they can skip class and it would be okay. This just makes the teachers feel like they have to give make up work because it wouldn’t seem fair if one teacher did and another teacher didn’t “This puts teachers in a tough situation, she says, " because if you don't [give makeup work] and another teacher does, it makes you look like the bad guy,"” (qtd in McGee). Unlike other teachers Wilson, a school district leader defend the use of makeup work, because he feels like it gives them that extra help and more opportunities to learn the material they missed.

	If make up work wasn't enough for the student to pass they would go into some type or remedial class to help them bump up there grade. ”Those classes, known as credit recovery, were held after school for a few weeks” (Nov. 18, 2017),  what would happen was students are put in these classes when they have failed a class and they want to make it up. McGee states that “ At Ballou, though, students who were on track to fail were placed in these classes before they should have been allowed,”(Nov. 18, 2017). This means the students were already taking these class before they even failed the class they were talking so they are taking two of the same class at the same time. McGee has a good point when she mentioned “Credit recovery is increasingly used to prevent students from dropping out, but  credit recovery courses  as the original course and are often less rigorous,” (Nov.18, 2017). In this case it would be a little different for the students a Ballou because they would be taking these classes at the same time. So they would just be repeating everything twice in one day but with different teachers.  

	In Kozol essay it talks about how some of the students were taking unnecessary classes that don't have to with the careers they were planning on. Kozol states that “A tall black student, for example, told me that she hoped to be a social worker or a doctor but was programed into “sewing class” this year” (pg. 719). So in this case how was this going to help the young girl with her career or make her think that she would be a doctor if they are putting her in a random class. She wasn't the only one that this happened to there were other students in the same situation but they had to take these classes because they were told it was required “At Fremont High, in contrast, this requirement was far more likely to be met by courses that were basically vocational” (pg. 720). When the classes the student wants to take to pursue their career are full they have to take these classes like swing dance, hairdressing and sewing class in order to graduate. At some point with these alternative classes it gives the students false hope of where they are going to end up after high school. For example the young lady that wanted to be a social worker or doctor how is having sewing going to impressive when she walks in with her resume to get that job. 

	Students also stop coming to class not because they don’t want to and they can’t make it up but because the teachers are never there so they always have substitutes or even the substitutes get substitutes “Obie told me that she stopped coming to class during the previous semester because, out of the six teachers, there were substitutes,” (pg. 721). If their own teaches don’t want to go to school then yes the student will stop going to they usually have that teacher everyday and it isn’t usually the same substitute everyday so they wouldn't know if that student was there before. The class won’t have a good schedule or maybe they just won’t be doing much in class because the original teacher isn’t even there. It wasn't easy for them to do homework or projects either because the one place with the computers was always close or is unavailable “But this was frequently impossible because the library was often closed when it was being used for other purposes such as administration of examinations, typically for “make-up testing,” ”(pg. 722-723). The teachers want to make the change but the school is just getting to overpopulated and there isn't that much room anymore. They had to do their meetings in the library or all the testing in there so if you didn’t have a computer at home you were out of luck with that assignment.

Overall, both of these schools are trying to help their students graduate but they may be helping them just to get them out not to really prepare them. In McGee essay a teacher told her “ "[They said] 'Just give him a D,' because they were trying to get him out of there and they knew he wouldn't do the makeup packet." ” (gtd in McGee). How is this supposed to prepare a student. In Kozol's article  how is “ Mireya, for example, who had plans to go to college, told me that she had to take a sewing class…” (pg. 720)  this won't really help in any aspect. Yes it does get them to graduate but not the right way with classes they don't really need. They finish and have those courses with decent grades but it doesn't prepare them for any career they are trying to go for after unless it is hairdressing, sewing or swing dancing. They should start encouraging kids to come to school and have classes that will benefit them or even classes that will enhance the stuff every job pretty much uses like math and english. 

We have to start fixing this in the school system we should be just trying to pass the class to graduate but to also pass with the knowledge that will carry us out in the future. These two authors brought up the main problems we face now with our education system we are more testing on if you can pass the class then if you know the material. 

























Work cited

Kozol, Jonathan. “Fremont High School.” Norton Field Guide. Eds. Richard Bullock and Maureen Daly Goggin. New York: 2016



Mcgee, Kate. “What Really Happened At The School Where Every Graduate Got Into College.” National Public Radio. November 28, 2017.  

 