In Trifles by Susan Glaspell, we see that the role of women is one that has extremely changed in recent decades. In today's world women can do more than what was even imagined in the previous centuries. Women used to be expected to listen to their husbands and do the "women duties." Many times, in the play there was talk about women only worrying about women things. When using the title Trifles it most likely means something of little value or importance and to treat someone with little respect. Womens roles were both undervalued and not fully respected. Trifles can describe the way women were treated, what women thought about, and what their daily lives consisted of. 

Not too long ago, women were treated with very little respect. What the women thought about something usually did not matter. They were supposed to listen to what their husbands said and not to have an opinion of their own. Trifles can easily describe the way women were treated. Since one interpretation of the word is to be treated without respect.

In the play, many times it was discussed that women seemed to only think or talk about women things. The men in the play thought that the women were only concerned about sewing or cleaning. There was very little regard to what the women were really thinking about in the play. What they were thinking was very knowledgeable and they were already putting crime pieces together in their heads. The title of the play can relate to this perceived role of women because the men thought very little of the women's intelligence.

Lastly, the daily lives of females in the play were much more difficult. A lot of their days are spent busy at home while their husbands were gone. The women did all the cooking, cleaning, preserving, quilting, and childcare. There was not a lot left up to the man to do, which is why I believe Mrs. Wright was unhappy with her husband and her daily duties. Once he was dead, the house was not cleaned because Mrs. Wright was not obligated to. The title, Trifles, connects here to the role of women because women "trifled" most of their day, and wasted a lot of their life. 

In this play, Trifles, we can easily see how the role of women has changed dramatically in today's world. Women were left to do all the work and became increasingly unhappy with life and their marriages. Men thought that all they cared about was quilting and cleaning, but it was far more than that. However, through the play the women were making key finds in the investigation that the men were not. Sometimes, a women's attention to detail comes in handy, especially in Mrs. Wrights case.

 