While reading Thomas Paine’s “The Age of Reason” you experience a handful of emotions. And I believe if you are very biased, you might experience more than a handful of emotions. The first feeling I felt while reading just the first paragraph was that Thomas Paine does not care what you think of his work. In the first paragraph he states, “I am well aware of the difficulties that attend the subject, and from that consideration had reserved it to a more advanced period of life”. He knows that he is talking about touchy subjects and feels that now is his time to tell others about his beliefs whether you like them or not. I just got the feeling that he is producing this whole text to the public because it is what he believes in and has researched on. He is listing everything he believes in and everything he does not believe in. All he is doing is stating his opinion and listing what he is thinking about the subjects.

My next emotion I felt while reading was anger. He feels like he is right and is almost sounding angry talking about all the different churches he does not like, when listing the churches he does not believe in. Maybe it sounds more like hatred just the way he is so point-blank with his opinions. He basically insults every church and says that they all do the same thing, which is “Terrify and enslave mankind, and monopolize power and profit”. But right after that, he states that he is not “Condemning” anyone. He has the right to state his opinion even if no one agrees with it.



Another feeling I got from reading this, was that Thomas Paine does not believe something unless he sees it. He talks about how all the different religious revelation books are secondhand accounts and that we should just believe the person who produced it. He does not believe about any sort of supernatural phenomenon and lists some of them he does not believe in, and wants more evidence for these supernatural occurrences. For example, he says that he does not believe that the Virgin Mary gave birth without a man, he does not believe the story of Moses getting the Ten Commandments from the hand of God, and he also stated that he does not believe that the Koran was written in heaven and brought down to Earth from an angel. He is stating all of his opinions and is alluding to the fact that he does not have to believe anything anyone is telling him. 

My last feeling I got from this reading was that he just wants answers. My point before this sort of alluded to this one about answers. I get the feeling that Paine just wants hard proof of these old religious accounts, and without any proof he thinks he should just completely dismiss the legitness of a phenomenon. He basically asks the question, “Why should I believe this?” throughout his discussion of missions and revelations. Paine thinks that he should be able to believe what his mind thinks is right based on any hard evidence. 