We live in a world today that relies so heavily on social networking. Our world feeds off social media. It’s hard to imagine a life without the Internet. Our world would be completely lost without our social lives. I believe that social networking sites such as Facebook do enhance a young person’s social life and abilities. With your positive effects, you always have your negatives that come with it.  Social networking is filled with its good and bad. I feel it enhances one’s life by being able to keep up with friends and family, allows you to communicate with each other, and sometimes social media can be turned into a competition. But, with that being said I still feel that the good outweigh the bad. 

	Many users have Facebook and other popular networks to keep up with friends and family. Social Media serves as a great tool to help keep you well informed about everything that is going on around you. I can say for myself that I get on Facebook every morning when I wake up and it’s like reading the newspaper. If it wasn’t for Facebook I would never see anything from people I’ve graduated with. I think it’s important for our world to stay connected with our loved ones. Facebook is also a great tool in which if you have family on vacation or traveling across the world you can kind of be on that trip/journey with them through Facebook. 





Everywhere you look in life you constantly see people with their phone devices in their hand. People all over the world never put the phone down. With that being said, it allows people to constantly be communicating with each other. You’d be surprised by the amount of people you can meet on social networking sites. Although, the only downfall is messaging online is so much easier than talking in person. So, it’s almost like the easy way out. Because if you think about it, a guy can ask you out online, but; what are the chances of him asking you out in real life. With that being said I still feel the good outweigh the bad and you meet tons of new lifelong friends from social networking. 

Everywhere you see a post from Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and etc. It’s amazing how everyone’s posts are so different yet so much alike. I feel that since there is such a high demand for social media, that it allows us to post more and be even more social. Because, when having an account online if you don’t post a lot it’s boring and no fun to look at so it allows you to want to post more. Sometimes social media can turn things into a competition. You see this act happening more in our generation because it turns in to who can get the most likes or followers on social media. 

	Our world is filled with so much technology. I feel that in a few short years everything will be technology based. It’s a good thing that so many people are getting to be familiar with social media because, that’s how our world communicates with one another. Without the use of cell phones, I truly believe our world wouldn’t be near as social. It’s kind of un usual to hear but social media is what our world relies on in a daily basis.  It makes up such a huge part of society. Social media is slowly but surely taking over the world one step at a time.