Fashion Junkies
    We live in a world that consists of mostly nothing but competition. People both young and old are constantly driven to be the best possible version of themselves. As a result, people all over the world have become succumbed to the idea of buying clothes with the intention of looking better than someone else.
            A 2007 advertisement that was released by the well-respected Italian clothing brand, Sisley, sparked up a substantial amount of controversy amongst the majority of those who viewed it. The advertisement is simply a photo of two young women who seem to be ‘snorting’ the straps of a plain white dress. Not only do they seem to be snorting cocaine at first glance, a credit card is placed on the table with an unknown white substance while one woman is bending over a table exposing one of her breasts. Both women are dressed as if they are either at a party or had just come back from one. From an attention-seeking standpoint, the creator of this advertisement did an excellent job at catching the audience’s attention. From a professional business standpoint, this advertisement does not go over too well, which explains the reason why this advertisement was banned as soon as it hit the internet after first being published in a high fashion magazine in China. Because there are so many clothing companies competing to become the most popular, it is not surprising to see advertisements being created to catch the audience’s eye. Because Sisley created such a controversial advertisement, they also gained a lot of attention towards the clothing brand which may have potentially increased the amount of sales they received. This advertisement helped gain attention towards the company because even though it got banned, it is still on the internet for everybody to see.
The goal of this advertisement is to promote the products of Sisley and to subliminally send a message to the audience that it is easy to become addicted to their clothing products. Because Sisley decided to publish such a controversial advertisement to the public, it allowed the addiction of fashion to become visible to the world. In a way, Sisley was smart for creating such a controversial advertisement due to the fact that it got to the eyes of many people. If they had not created such a controversial ad, they would have not received as much attention. It can be argued that Sisley is now looked down upon by not only the audience, but also other clothing companies due to such controversy. This advertisement made Sisley look bad but they would not have published such an advertisement if they did not expect to receive such backlash.
            In a way, Sisley was successful by creating such a controversial ad due to the fact that it brought attention to the company. In another way, this advertisement was not successful due to the fact that it does not persuade the audience to purchase their products. Although there is no persuasion, there is definitely manipulation. Sisley is manipulating its audience into believing that their clothing products are addicting, like drugs. Sisley seemed to primarily focus on the artwork of the advertisement rather than their products. What are they trying to sell here, a white dress or the black and purple shirts being worn by the two women who seem to be snorting cocaine? Sisley did a terrible job representing their clothing products in the advertisement especially because of the fact that the woman in black is revealing the entirety of her breast. This makes Sisley look bad due to the idea that women who are considering purchasing their products will have to worry about their breasts being exposed to the public without notice. It is clear that Sinsley did not consider the more mature consumers such as parents or grandparents who are seeking for clothes for their children. Such a controversial ad would easily prevent the purchase of mature consumers who would rather shop from a more “PG” rated clothing brand. Sisley targeted a small group of people and could have easily appealed to a wider audience. For instance, instead of snorting cocaine, the use of drugs could have been changed to a more friendly alternative such as drinking milk through a straw. Sisley may have come to the conclusion that an attention-seeking advertisement is better than no advertisement. Although it is important to do anything to make sure your company receives the recognition it deserves, it is more important to be visually appealing to all groups.  
Because Sisley makes clothes for both men and women, this advertisement is discriminating to both genders. For instance, women might feel discriminated due to the fact that Sisley seems to be assuming that women can be addicted to drugs as easily as they can become addicted to clothing. The title of the advertisement, “Fashioin Junkie” can also be discriminating to women, hence the fact that ‘Fashion’ is spelled incorrectly. Incorrectly spelling a word on an advertisement, especially when it is the title of the advertisement makes the company look very unprofessional. This could have simply been a mistake when the advertisement was being published or it could also be another subliminal message that it is uneasy to spell correctly when high. In addition, men may also feel discriminated due to the fact that this advertisement is attempting to receive their attention by revealing a woman’s breast and also assuming that men enjoy women getting high. This advertisement can be considered sexist towards women because of the idea that Sisley seems to believe that clothing is a necessity for them, similar to how drugs are a necessity for a drug addict.
Although this Sisley ad in particular is controversial enough to get banned, Sisley is known for creating controversial ads. Some may believe that this advertisement may be targeting those who are addicted to drugs and should seek a better alternative. I am under the impression that this advertisement is targeting young individuals who are fascinated by living the party-life, not necessarily those who are addicted to drugs. The relationship between drug addiction and the addiction of shopping are both major problems in today’s society. Some may say that drug addiction is a much more severe issue in regards to one’s health, but becoming addicted to purchasing clothes can become a financial hindrance. For example, Natalia Lusinski wrote an article titled What 15 Millennial Women Spend On Clothes Every Month. In this article, she asks several women how much money they spend on clothes every month and the answers are astonishingly high. For instance, a woman named Amanda who is just 22 years of age runs her own fashion and lifestyle blog spends roughly $700 a month just on clothes. Due to the increasing amount of addiction towards spending money on clothes, it is safe to say that people have become negligent towards prioritizing their financial spendings.
Overall, the outcome of Sisley publishing such a controversial advertisement received too much backlash for Sisley to ever be respected as a professional clothing company. Because this advertisement was banned, Sisley will forever be known as the clothing company whose advertisement was too controversial for the world to take into consideration.
                         
  
Work Cited:
Dewulf, Brianna. “‘Fashion Junkie’ by Sisely « Advertising in Society.” Advertising in Society Fashion Junkie by Sisely Comments, 21 Sept. 2012, blogs.longwood.edu/advertising3/2012/09/21/fashion-junkie-by-sisely/.
Lusinski, Natalia. “This Is How Much Millennial Women Spend On Clothes.” Bustle, Bustle, 22 Dec. 2017, www.bustle.com/p/what-15-millennial-women-spend-on-clothes-every-month-41978.
Chris, Author. “The 7 Consequences Of Being A Shopaholic.” Odyb.net, 3 Mar. 2015, odyb.net/disorders/shopping-over-spend-addict-compulsive/.
Triffin, Molly. “What Shopping Addiction Really Looks Like — and How to Quit.” Time.com, DailyWorth, 3 Dec. 2015, time.com/money/4134629/shopping-addiction/.
Z, Joanne. “Fashion Junkie.” Fashion Junkie | NewsActivist, 14 Feb. 2016, newsactivist.com/en/articles/gendered-world-views-section-11-winter-2016/fashion-junkie.