



 



	In the 1960s many womens were involved in the workforce, but also their still getting paid very as where compared to men which people would called it the gender pay gap. Many womens in the 1960s were also getting harass in there work area also womens in the 1960s were taught to alway be a housewife and just do things for your husband. Within the 1960s according to CNN many women were told to alway put your husband need before themselves or just be a housewife. Here is a statement that shows an example of how women taught to be like in the 1960 "we want to be sure that women are used as effectively as they can to provide a better life for our people, in addition to meeting their primary responsibility which is in the home." With this statement that JFK made when he made the commission on the status of women in 1961 he also pointing out that women should alway be a house regardless if she want to work and with this act that he made he put Eleanor Roosevelt as the chair women for this act. With the message that is being sent out very clear about this act that JFk made many felt that this messages was to say that women should alway be in the house and just make babies and alway put your husband first before themselves. In order to get  job in the 1960s for womens, womens must use their sexuality in order to get a job. Womens in the 1960s were also label as sexual icon because of what they have to do in order to get a job.

	In this case the fact that many women have to use their sexuality to get a jobs. Many job forces in the 1960s only hire womens because of their sexuality and women are basically force to do these kind of stuff or else they won't have a job. Mainly in order to get any kinds of jobs womens have to look a certain way also which this does involved women sexuality. Also women need to dress in a more sexual ways, because of what the workforce is doing to them. Along with the fact that many womens that are working doesn't get pay the same amount as mens, even though they are working the same job and same hour. According to U.SNews is the article called "The 1960s: A Decade of Change for Women" written by Kenneth T. Walsh. He explained how things have change for womens back in the 1960s here is a few example on what was mentioned in the article that happened in the 1960s for women. Contraction pills, pay workforced, and sexual harassment that happened to them at work. Here is a statement claimed on how women were getting free from having unwanted pregnancy which lead to the pills act " more than 80 percent of wives of childbearing age were using contraception after the federal government in 1960 approved a birth control pill. This freed many women from unwanted pregnancy and gave them many more choices, and freedom in their lives." Despite, that women still  get pay lesser than men in workforce still spark a debate between womens in the 1960s and in the workforce. 

	

	

   	This advertisements from the 1960s, spark controversial. It shows one girl in her lingerie while there's a bunch of guys surrounding her and pulling on to. What this advertisement is trying to say that's it okay for men to sexual assault women. This advertisement comes from "The Broomstick" a clothing company that sell men's slacks. This advertisement show us that what their in the advertisement is okay for mens take control women and to touch them inappropriately. Although this advertisement is mainly about selling mens slacks but what their showing is that what people would call it appropriately to be doing in our society.

	Although, we know what exactly going in the advertisement, but in some cases many people might not think that the advertisement is wrong, but in other people view they feel that it is very inappropriate to be shown and that they think the company is promoting sexual assault toward womens. Within the advertisement although it happened back in the 1960s not many people would want to see the advertisement not because of what the advertisement is showing and what their secretly promoting in the ad. To avoid they any kind of confusion they put few description   about what the slacks that the mens are wearing, but within those description that they ad about the slacks it's mainly telling us that their wording is to meant that its okay to  women by "having more fun in their slacks" with this being a controversial part of the ad also the picture that is being shown. Although, the ad was suppose to sell slacks, but showing a group of mens surrounding one women and pulling on her shows an emotional reaction to people that are against sexaul assault. This ad falls into Jack Solomon essay called "Master of Desired: The Culture of American Advertising, this ad isn't manipulating but more persuading people that it's ok to sexually assault womens back in the 1960s. According to Jack Solomon "Appealing to put subconscious emotions rather than to our conscious intellects, advertisement are designed to exploit the discontentment fostered by the American Dream the constant desire for social success and the material rewards that accompany it." With this statement from Jack Solomon that this ad only try to persuade people to buy their slack, but more importantly their trying to say without even saying it that it is okay for women to be sexuall asault. 



	

	Through logos that the advertisement is showing is that their trying to persuade audience basing on their picture that it is okay to sexaull assault women, but in reality their just advertising slacks for mens. Within the persuasion that they are basically trying to sell, but what they add in their description in their ad spark controversial knowing it's not what they really meant by selling slacks, but promoting sexual assault toward womens. Their persuasion  in this ad was to mainly sell mens slacks but it's more than selling slacks it's also what people think when they first see this ad is that people would see it as sexual assault towar womens. 

	In pathos this ad shows a very bad emotion in the public that is why this ad was never release in the 60s because of how controversial this ad was toward to womens in general. With the emotions that this ad bring out to people is hatred because of what their doing to a girl that people would call it sexual assault. Back in the 1960s many womens were label as sexual icon, because of what they have to do in order to work anywhere. With this being said the fact many womens in the 60s were treated horrible this ad appeal to their emotion very deep because of how this ad was place in and what they did to take this picture. In the ad it shows a very thin girl and back in the 1960s this is how women should look like if they want to have a job is to look pretty and thin back in 60s and to know that how womens were treated back in the 60s within this ad its make people show their emotion by becoming angry at this ad and not having to release to the public back in 1960s. 

	The way this advertisement show ethos which the credibility is call "The Broomstick" this is a men clothing company that sell mens slack as you can see in the ad they wrote little description about the slacks but also something that stand out the most in the description "The game is Broomstick"with this little title that is in front of it which mean something that is very inappropriate along with description. Also in this it show ethos by showing how much they were selling their slacks. 

	In conclusion with this ad that didn't release because of the controversial on what their promoting. Within their persuasion, emotion that their showing is that it's really sad to see that people would actually promote sexual assault toward women thinking it okay when there is people trying to end sexual assault toward both women and mens. However, in the ad some people might think that their just selling slacks but when you look into the words in the description it's more than just selling slacks. With this being said although there still many sexual assault going on in our society. Through out the years there are different stories about sexaul assault case. Some cases many court chose not to be involved and that the victim in the rape case don't alway get justice as they wish for. Along with this ad on what their promoting that emotions that has gone through this ad was very bad, because of how women are being in the 1960s and with this ad showing stuff like this makes people more angry at it. Knowing that women have to suffer a lot base on their gender and looking down on them makes it more angry. Because womens in the 1960s were label as weak, stay home and take the childrens, and alway put your husband need before themselves and along with this ad it obviously shows that women are mainly use as sexual icon for mens and to alway try to stay young and look pretty also to stay thin. With that being said this ad doesn't try to sell men slacks but to objective womens in the 1960s also to show how womens were actually treated in the 1960s.



	

	Work Cited 

"The 1960s: A Decade of Change for Women." U.S. News & World Report, U.S. News & World Report, .

"Women in the 1960s." How Are Women Treated, 12 Mar. 2013, alatimer4.wordpress.com/women-in-the-1960s/.

"Second-Wave Feminism." Khan Academy, www.khanacademy.org/humanities/ap-us-history/period-8/apush-1960s-america/a/second-wave-feminism.



	

 

 

  

   