"Trifles”

	“Trifles” is a play about crime. Like any other crime scene, this crime scene had to be checked by law enforcement. The men that check the crime scene are men who find every day jobs for women to be unimportant. The men point out that “women are used to worrying over trifles” (Glaspell, 2013).  The title of this play relates to how men viewed women’s role at this time. 

In the play the men are playing important roles in the investigative process of a murder. The wife of the man that was murdered is being put on trial as a suspect. She was visited in jail and requested they bring her an apron and a shawl. The men go to her house to investigate and fulfill her wishes. Everyone in the group, including some women, search the house. While the men are searching for evidence the wife killed her husband, the women look for fruit she had prepared before she was taken. The fruit was a mess. The men, focused on their job only, mocked the wife for worrying about her fruit. After they find the fruit, the men decide to split up away from their wives to search for more evidence. The women, left alone, found a box with quilt pieces. The women were curious if the wife had planned to knot it or quilt it. The men overheard their conversation and made fun of the women for their curiosity. After the men decide to leave again, the women think to finish the quilt. In the process, they find a broken bird cage without a bird. They thought it was peculiar they had an empty, broken bird cage if they did not have a bird to tend to. The women turn their attention back on the quilt and decide to take the quilt and the box to the wife. In the process of searching for a needle and thread, they come across the bird. The bird was wrapped in silk- dead. Someone had wrung the bird’s neck just as the wife’s husband had died. (Glaspell, 2013)

The title correlates to the “unimportance” of women’s jobs. Women’s jobs were to do chores. These chores are looked at as trifles. Because the women were used to doing these chores, the women were worried about fruit and quilts in the middle of an investigation. According to the men, it was pretty useless for the women to worry about little, pointless things. However, the men are underestimating and not appreciating the work the women accomplish. The women found an important piece of evidence that lead to the verdict that the wife did, in fact, kill her husband. If the women had not been curious and tried to do what they have been brought up to do, they probably would not have solved the case; especially since men do not do these jobs. Since men do not do these jobs, they did not truly appreciate the work the wife and the other women did until the women accomplished something the men did not. 

The title of the play “Trifles” refers to the unimportant and underappreciated role of women at the time. However in the end, the women’s work lead to a solved case. The men thought the women were paying too much attention to the trifles when, in reality, the trifles were the most important piece of evidence that the men were too arrogant to investigate themselves.


Works Cited

Glaspell, S. (2013). Trifles. In: X. Kennedy and D. Gioia, ed., Literature, 13th ed. Upper Saddle River: Pearson, pp. 1153-1163