Feelings towards Thomas Paine’s Age of Reason.

	Upon initially reading Thomas Paine’s Age of Reason, I feel a great sense of intelligence and boldness. He comes out with exactly how he feels towards religion and religious organizations and I can’t help but to gain a profound respect for the author. It’s hard enough being an outcast in todays world with religions that are considered strange or abnormal. For him to be as bold as he was and just lay it all out on the line it warrants a certain amount of respect especially for the time period. He systematically goes through and virtually disproves every religion and can make most people have to almost question their own faith that read his words thoroughly and understand them. Being Agnostic, I can relate heavily to what he is saying, and I feel no anger nor do I feel any kind of resentment towards any information he is providing or feelings he is stating. 

	When Paine states that most information provided in religious works are secondhand accounts and we only have their word that what they are saying happened. It’s as if he took my feelings I’ve had most of my life and through them down on paper. I’m actually content with what he’s saying, and I feel as if he’s doing it in one of the most respectful ways he possibly can. Considering religion is such a controversial subject. Almost any time you tell someone that you have a different opinion on the matter than them it becomes offensive and you’re shunned by said person. I can relate with almost everything he’s saying. As we discussed his works in class and I read them for assignments at home, I began to notice a lot of similarities between Agnosticism and Deism. With the exception that Deism recognizes the existence of a Higher Power. 

	With the rise of The Enlightenment Era and people starting to feel as if the Church was lying to them or trying to scare them into submission. He wrote this pamphlet and at the very least gave people a different point of view towards the church. He wrote so passionately that you couldn’t help but to be partially swayed over to his side. Even if you didn’t agree with everything that he said, chances are you could find one thing that you did agree with. His comparison of Christianity to Atheism is a little lost on me but almost everything else I can understand what he’s trying to say. I feel like everything he wrote down needed to be said simply to try to give people a different take on religion. To expand people’s minds and to potentially lead to a more accepting world where all religions are respected and even those without. I have nothing but respect for this man for having the courage to say something that he knew may anger people from all religions and all walks of life because he felt it needed to be said. I’m very glad that I have had the opportunity to research and study him and I believe that he may be my favorite author from this era now. 

