Reading a Book vs. Watching a Movie

	Given the opportunity to choose between reading a book and watching a movie, I would choose to read a book. Although watching a good movie can be fun, reading a book allows me to be creative while improving my comprehension skills.

	When reading, the reader is allowed to visualize the story in any way they want. They can visualize what the captain of the ship in the short story looks like. The reader can imagine what a sunrise or sunset would look like in a romantic novel. The reader can feel what the main character feels. Through the power of words, the mind can to wonderous things. The reader is allowed to escape to a world of their own creativity. The reader is allowed to set their own boundaries where the only limit is their imagination. When reading a book, the reader is allowed to paint their own image of what the story should look like. The reader is allowed to look at the bigger picture. Watching a movie, the viewer is confined to only coloring inside the lines since they are given someone else’s idea of what the story should look or feel like.

	When reading, your mind grows. For example the more I read, the more my chances of understanding important articles or information increase. The more I read, the more I can understand challenging or complex words. The more I read, the easier it is to write essays. The more I read, the easier it is to express myself through thoughts, or even actions. Creativity when reading a book can also apply to actions taken based on books read. Reading improves comprehension skills as well as creativity levels. Think of the characters in a movie. The characters need read scripts in order to express their character correctly. They are allowed to use their imagination to make a character character unique with the words given to them. With practice, the actors and actresses get better. Watching the end result of someone else’s imagination, creativity, and comprehension of the story is not beneficial in any way.

	Reading books are way more effective than watching a movie. Reading gives ample opportunity to be creative and grow mentally. Movies are great, but they do not have the same impact on an individual who reads.