Literary Analysis Essay 

	Personal experience defines a lot about one’s life. In many stories, the authors intertwine their past and have a personal connection with what they have to write about. Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin both had a traumatic childhood, never knowing what to expect. They grew up in two different time periods but the society they grew up in was something that they explained very deeply. Hawthorne’s and Chopin’s childhood, time period, and the society they grew up in can portray how they both have a personal connection with their literature. 

	A person’s childhood experience can affect the rest of their life including relationships with their close ones. Both, Hawthorne and Chopin, went through a very tough childhood and it defines how great their stories are today. Chopin lost many family members throughout her life, including her father in a railroad accident, her grandmother, and her brother of typhoid fever. She began to experience a feeling of loneliness because everyone that she once loved had left her. In “Story of an Hour,” Chopin began to explain how the wife was starting to be content with the death of her husband and how it justifies to the “joy that kills” (16). However, Hawthorne experienced his great-grandfather being the judge of the witchcraft trials and the death of his father at a very early age. With Hawthorne returning to Salem later on, he experienced the death of his mother and knew that this was not the place he was supposed to live. Just like Chopin, he began to feel alone because he was losing the people he was close to and had once loved. As the both of them went through a formidable childhood, it shaped them to be the imposing authors they once were.

	The time periods that authors grow up in portray how the environment they grow up in will shape the literature they write. Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin both grew up in two different time periods, so the traumatic experience that they had in their childhood could possibly have a different effect on them. Hawthorne was born in 1804, where he was surrounded by his mother and sisters. As he grew up, he was encompassed with a solid and secure female role model because that is the environment he was around. Although Kate Chopin similarly experienced what Hawthorne did, she was born in the time period of the 1850’s. As her husband died of malaria, she was left with a big responsibility of raising six children on her own. Since she experienced a great amount of loss in such a short period of time, she decided that writing would be a great source of comfort. In the time periods they grew up in, both of them had to grow up fast at an early age and become the man and woman that they were supposed to be. 

	The society authors grow up in can influence the way their lives will be later in their informed writing. Hawthorne grew up in Salem, Massachusetts most of his life before he moved around a couple of times. He had three children and knew he need to provide financially for his family because that was what he was supposed to do. Since his great-grandfather was the judge of the witchcraft trials he believed that events from the past were haunting him and that it was not a place where he was supposed to be. The society in which he grew up altered his way of life which shaped his way of writing. On the other hand, Chopin grew up in St. Louis, Missouri, where she experienced grief at a young age. Since she had the responsibility of six children, she chose to only write a couple days out of the week and still be involved in the St. Louis society. Chopin’s writings were shaped by the society and the way she lived her life. Both Hawthorne and Chopin, were extraordinary influences that were motivated in the societies that they lived in and proved to show how it exactly shaped their literature. 

Hawthorne and Chopin associate their past, losing the ones they had once loved, in their stories to establish a relationship with the reader which have created their great stories. As they both grew up in different time frames, the people and places they were surrounded by shaped their literature to create what they had written. 

	          







