Social Media or Social Life?

	Social media is a large part of the daily lives of billions of people. The industry has continued to grow rapidly over the past decades. From Facebook to Snapchat, social media is meant to enhance the social experience of the user, yet it is often used for a much different purpose. Many teens and adults use these social media apps and websites as substitutes for their social lives. They do this through creating an online profile that is often an exaggeration or even totally different than who they really are. 

	Often, people post things online that they would never say in real life. Especially if the site or app allows them to remain anonymous. Also, if someone posts something that someone does not like, they have the option not to allow people to comment on their posts, or any negative (or positive) feedback will go to an online inbox or the online community, which gives the author the choice of reading their criticisms. In the real world, simply offending the wrong person, which is not difficult in this time, or saying something inappropriate, can have serious consequences. Often, people are willing to stand up for what they believe in when their face is behind a screen than when they are face to face with another person or a crowd. 

	Teens and adults often post images, videos, or typed posts online that do not belong there. Whether by choice or under pressure, many of these posts include violence, nude images, or other inappropriate content, and could get someone into serious trouble. These images are not always posted to the public. For example, snapchat allows for “friends” to send “snaps” to one another. The sender takes a picture or video, adds a caption or filter, and selects how long they want the image to be viewable. Once sent, the receiver can view the image or video and can take a screenshot, depending on the device used. The sender will be notified is a screenshot is taken or if the receiver replays their “snap”, but if a screenshot is taken, it is out of their control and regardless of the image, someone could share it with others. That is how pictures get leaked and a reputation or life is ruined, depending on the severity of the image.

	Teens and adults alike often enjoy appearing online as people they are not, not caring about what others think and living a carefree kind of lifestyle, but there are dangers to social media. Social media can enhance someone’s social life if used correctly, but honestly it does more damage than good. 