

English Composition 

	In todaytion is dominated by social media. The main target age social media has proven to impact are teenagers and their social tendencies. Teens fail to interact as much, or in the same ways, as those in the past that they are being compared to. It is often said that kids are too absorbed “in their screens” to care about what is happening in the real world around them. Social media sites have become a new way of life for our current culture. Depending on who is being asked, this new way of life can be viewed as both negative and positive.

	Social media has proved itself to be beneficial in the younger generation’s lives in various ways. Social media platforms can be a quick way to meet and interact with new people, create friendships, and network around the world. Social media can even provide sources that help singles find compatible people to begin relationships. These profiles that are created are meant to bring individuals together that have things in common, but would have never had the opportunity to find each other without the site. 

Young adults have also found social media helpful in the spectrum of work. By creating a central location for all job hunters to network, it provides optimal opportunities for both the employer and employee. Sites are set up, such as LinkedIn, to introduce recent graduates to available job opportunities that they would best fit while allowing employers to see which people could bring the most to the table for their company. From there, the social media users reach out to each other to fill positions and become great examples of beneficial social media use. 

	Where there is good there is usually evil, and this is no different for social media. Social media has can negatively affect a young persons social skills, self image, and drive to work hard. It is no secret to anyone, especially to the parents of teenagers, that children’s behavior can change once they are allowed access to cell phones and laptops.  The reason behind this character change, once exposed to these devices, is that devices lead to sites that allow them to see whatever they want, hear whatever they want, and communicate with who ever they want. “You are who you hangout with” is a very common phrase that holds a lot of truth. Often, parents do not monitor what their teens are partaking in on social media and this can unsafe. 

But, the main complaint that people have about our current society is introversion. People no longer mingle or have casual conversations because they do not have to. Social media is so up to date that we know everything that is going on in our friends and families lives without even having a conversation to ask. Social media gives people of all ages, not just teenagers, the ability to create profiles on websites that prevents them from having basic face-to-face conversations.  All of the instantaneousness of social media has taken away the socialization of our society.  

Along with the lack of social skills, easy access to information can lead to laziness. Answers to questions are so easy to google or ask for on Facebook that it keeps kids from actually thinking and brainstorming. Instead, it is now more common to take the shortcut and look up the question they are curious about. When an answer is found by clicking a search button it does not do as much good as if it were to require thought and understanding. Our society lacks the thinking process that was once needed to calculate a math problem or remember a cooking recipe because all you have to do is put it into a search bar or look it up on Pinterest. 

	In the end, many positives and negatives can be listed for the implementation of social networks in today’s world. After weighing both sides, it is apparent that social media serves as a substitute for a real social life. To play a role in society, young adults need to reduce their use of all of these outlets and learn to develop themselves as they are. Overall, it would be much more beneficial for people to grow up interacting with others, and learning without the aid of their computer, to acquire both there socials skills and the knowledge they need to be an active member of society.