Perception of Literature 

	Writing is a lot more than just words on a piece of paper. Writers are influenced by many things around them that give their words meaning. A persons’ childhood, or the experiences they go through help them develop and express how they write. Nathanial Hawthorne`s writing is greatly impacted and inspired by his childhood. He grew up in Salem during the witch trials. His family was directly involved and constantly were scrutinized. Kate Chopin is another author we see were her meaning comes from her early life. Chopin had many loses of family members at an early age. Chopin also married a man that required her to move to a town where she could not be herself, and also left her in immense debt. These authors have experienced death, judgement, and overall hardships that have lead them to create their monumental stories. 

	Hawthorne and Chopin both experienced death at a young age. Both authors lost their Fathers at a young age. Chopin also lost her grandmother who mentored her as a young woman. Death is very prevalent in both stories we have studied by these authors. In Chopin`s “Story of an Hour,” the whole story is about the supposed death of a woman`s husband. In Hawthorne`s “Young Goodman Brown,” death and the devil are the main themes. We can assume this kind of writing is brought about by both of the authors actual experience of death in their own lives. 

	Judgement is another experience Chopin and Hawthorne have faced that we can see shaped their writing. Hawthorne’s whole family was judged in his early life. Hawthorne`s bother was a judge for the Salem witch trials. Hawthorne spent his life trying to distance himself from his ancestors involved with the trails, but judgment always seemed to fall upon him. Chopin faced judgment when she moved to a city where her husband worked. She was judged for anything and everything she did. In Chopin’s “Story of an Hour,” we see the main character to be a woman who has just found out about the loss of her husband; but, instead of being distraught, she seemed almost happy. We can assume this is brought upon by Chopin`s experience with her husband and how it affected her. 

	The last thing that I see has shaped these authors writings, is overall hardships. Chopin and Hawthorne are no strangers to these. In Chopin`s “Story of an Hour,” when the woman hears the news of her husband’s death she is almost relived. Chopin`s experience with her husband and all the debt he was racking up could have prompted this writing. Chopin may have been relived that her husband was done with building up debt and she could actually live her life. Hawthorne`s hardship of trying to distance himself from his “devilish” ancestors is shown very clearly in “Young Goodman Brown.”The main character is consumed by what devilish thing is in the woods but when he gets back from his journey he is nothing but judged and left to live a lonely life. 

	Through learning about authors past, and what experiences they have been through, we are able to decipher their work better. Perception Is critical for us as readers to be able to understand the true meaning behind a piece of writing. Both Chopin and Hawthorne’s childhoods were filled with many ugly things, but they were able to turn the experiences they had into unforgettable stories. 







Works Cited 

“Kate Chopin: The Awakening, The Storm, stories, biography.” KateChopin.org, www.katechopin.org/.





“North Shore Community College welcomes you to Hawthorne in Salem.” Welcome to Nathaniel Hawthorne in Salem, www.hawthorneinsalem.org/.

	



