









Early hardships not only shape who you are, they stay with you throughout life to later help you in the long run. These hardships inevitably play the role of building you into the best version of yourself.  Authors are especially the type of people to exemplify this. An authors’ hardships and personal experiences can be converted to paper more easily than most believe. Their backgrounds can aid to the stories they compose by making their words more real and relatable to the reader. The perception of what he or she is reading will be more easily connected to when the story feels like it really happened.  Kate Chopin is an American female author that published two novels and more than hundreds stories throughout the 1890s. Chopin was born in St. Louis, Missouri and as a child she was mentored by multiple women. Her mother, her grandmother, and her great grandmother all were positive influences and guided her with their wisdom,  but each of these women also noted that Chopin grew up with a great amount of trauma. Her father was killed in a railway accident, her beloved French-speaking great grandmother passed, and her brother also died of typhoid fever. She always recorded her life’s circumstances in her diary. This log of her life would later be credited to shaping her into the writer she became.  Another author was Nathaniel Hawthorne, a talented American writer who was born in Salem, Massachusetts in 1804. He was also known for his famously known novels and short stories.  Nathaniel Hawthorne’s life was embedded with Puritan legacy.  Hawthorn was also known for his harsh sentencing during the Salem Witch Trials. Hawthorn later added a “w” to his name to separate his family from his harsh past. These times shaped Hawthorne into the brilliant author he is today by providing to write short stories that helped him make up for his past blemishes, but also provide little income.

		Chopin used her literature to inspire women that read her short stories because her being raised by a woman dominated household helped her get an opinion on women individual power and rights in a way. Hawthorne on the other hand, he used a negative to start to inspire people and use his life for the better due to a leg injury he endured that left him immobile. In the late 1890s women didn't have much respect or power in marriage or even in the household for that matter. Chopin’s personal experiences in a time where marriages were male dominate she used that past experience and put it into her short stories and novels to inspire women that their just as important. Hawthorne used his Salem Witch Trials past to better himself and make up for it in his stories and showed a positive feeling when reading a piece by him. Chopin’s trauma period of her life that she endured didn't go in vain, all the deaths of loved family members she kept a diary which she wrote down everything from 1867 to 1870 which formed to what is known today as “Emancipation: A Life Fable.” 

	It is obvious, after reviewing their literary work, that Chopin and Hawthorne both experienced tough circumstances throughout their childhood. After gathering a better understanding of their pasts, it is easy to relate to their stories and find deeper meaning in their words. Each author has exemplified, with proof through their novels and short stories, that they have the ability to take negative experiences and create something positive. 



Works Cited

	“Kate Chopin: The Awakening, The Storm, stories, biography.” KateChopin.org, .

	“Nathaniel Hawthorne.” Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 4 Jan. 2017, www.biography.com/people/nathaniel-hawthorne-9331923.