
	In order to tell a great story, the person telling the story has to be moved or influenced in some way. Most of the time, the author bases his or her fictional story on a personal experience. The author’s personal experiences throughout the story are observed as symbols. In the short stories of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin, they share traumatic experiences with their readers through the lives of their characters. By looking into these authors’ biographies, the information was gathered that they have shared personal experiences such as: the loss of a loved one, an unwanted lifestyle, and the feeling on being alone.

	In Chopin’s “The Story of an Hour” the main character, Louise Mallard, finds she has lost her husband in a railroad accident. Mrs. Mallard is motivated to find a new life as an independent woman (Chopin 15-16). As a young girl, Chopin lost her father in a railroad accident as well. She was extremely independent and was raised by women until she was married to Oscar Chopin (The Awakening). Similarly, Mrs. Mallard was taken care of by her sister, Josephine. Chopin’s husband died of malaria which made Chopin a widow at age 32 (The Awakening). Again, Mrs. Mallard became a widow and was left to handle life on her own, but only for a short amount of time (Chopin 15-16). Chopin exhibited her lifestyle through Mrs. Mallard in “The Story of an Hour.”

	Similar to Chopin, Hawthorne experienced family issues. His friends and family contained secrets that showed he could no longer trust anyone. First, Hawthorne grew up in Salem, Massachusetts during the Salem Witch Trials. His paternal side of the family was heavily involved in these events. He was haunted by these events so much that after he married, he left with his wife. They soon returned to Salem because Hawthorne got a job as Surveyor of the Port. He lost this job and decided he no longer had a reason to stay in Salem (Biographical Information). Hawthorne became a recluse and talked to hardly anyone besides his small group of friends (Biographical Information). In his short story “Young Goodman Brown” the main character, Goodman Brown, was forced to conform to a lifestyle of the devil. His closest friends and family have already taken part of the events that bound them to the devil. He was strong in his beliefs and, therefore, did not wish to partake in the evil events that lead to the reveal that the devil worked with his father’s side of the family (Hawthorne 321-329). Hawthorne’s childhood, filled with dark magic, betrayal, and abandonment, was clearly defined throughout his short story “Young Goodman Brown.”

	After their traumatic experiences, both authors felt alone. Hawthorne felt alone after being alienated (Biographical Information) as did Chopin after the loss of her father (The Awakening). They portray these events in their stories through the lives of their characters. For instance, like Chopin, the story of Mrs. Mallard revolved around the fact that she also lost her husband. Chopin and Mrs. Mallard were left with their children as widows.  Hawthorne became a recluse just like Goodman Brown after being betrayed by his friends and loved ones made their commitment to the devil. 

	These authors have written about themselves through the lives of their characters and through events that occurred throughout the characters’ lives. These are symbols of the authors distributed throughout the story. Due to the events that occurred in the authors’ lives, good or bad, these events molded the perfect story line for their short stories. These authors were able to communicate the pain, confusion, and sense of abandonment through their characters because the authors also experienced the same thing their characters did.




Works Cited

“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, stories.” KateChopin.org,				.

Biographical Information Relating to Nathaniel Hawthorne: Introduction,

.

Meyer, Michael. The Bedford Introduction to Literature: Reading, Thinking, and Writing. 

Bedford/St Martins, 2016.