                                        



	



Short Story Novelistsrough many personal experiences in life. It’s amazing how writing can relate to one’s life in such a huge way. Both stories “The Story of an Hour” by Kate Chopin and “Young Goodman Brown” by Nathaniel Hawthorne are both unique in their own way. They are so unique but yet so similar in ways that both stories portray the meaning of what it’s like to go through a person experience.  Both stories from Chopin and Hawthorne go into depth about the roles of childhood, society, and historical time periods. 

	Hawthorne’s writing contained many elements about his childhood. Hawthorne started out learning to read at such an early age. Hawthorne thoroughly enjoyed reading and that’s what made him begin to want to write. With him focusing so much on reading it gave him the spark to begin writing his own novels. With the help of books, it inspired him to go far and wide and to use his imagination to reach all of his dreams and goals. Even though Hawthorne was a bright individual he had the reputation of being shy and even sheltered at times; he did socialize in a circle that included other writers that he had grown accompany to. Many of whom lived in Concord when he did, so he was very familiar with their faces. With him being an author it caused him to blossom out and to begin to form many lifelong friendships. Hawthorne incorporates this into his writing because it allowed him to open up as a writer and to not be so shy in his novel. This taught him how to be more comfortable and how to express his feelings better. As for Chopin’s childhood, she had a rough life growing up as a child. She lost many family members and felt alone at times because she had an emptiness in her heart from death. Death had taken so much from her life. Both Hawthorne and Chopin lived a very similar childhood. 

	Chopin incorporates her story into her life is though the sensitivity to what it sometimes feels like to be a woman on prominent display in this work. Chopin had 6 children she had to raise on her own, this was a huge role she had to take on. This was a role that was very life changing. “Story of an Hour” is filled with so much raw and real emotions. She does a well-rounded job describing her emotions and getting her point across to the readers. She does this in a very informative way while remaining appropriate to the readers. This reflects society in a manner in which it speaks to society and brings awareness to the issue. The society can reflect upon and connect with what Chopin is saying. I feel that society shaped Chopin.

	In Hawthorne’s story the setting has such a strong meaning. Salem is the town famous for its morbid “Witch Trials”. Hawthorne can relate this to his life in more ways than one because earlier in his life he had a sequence of events that haunted him. Hawthorne was impacted by this actions in a way in which it allowed him and gave him ideas to incorporate “Witch Trials” into his short stories. This impacted society because such action like this caused an effect on others.

	“The Story of an Hour” first appeared in Vogue in 1894 and today serves as one of her most popular works. This I feel is one of her most popular works because it’s so relatable to Chopin’s life. This element of how the story is relatable to her life, is because it’s such a personal manner. She based that on her life and the story represents everything that she went through. I feel that writing is a way for her to explain her thoughts and a way to express all her feelings. She felt she needed to share to the world a little part of her life. Sharing her story caused Because, sometimes sharing your feelings helps you to cope better with the situation you’re dealing with. The title is one element of how the author Kate Chopin incorporates her story into her life.  The title “The Story of an Hour” gets its meaning because all the action throughout the short story seems to all play out in an hour’s time. I thought that this was really cool because it brings such emphasis to the title. Hawthorne speaks of Salem in his story. This hit close to home, for Salem is where he grew up at. I think it’s super cool that he was able to incorporate it into his story. His story is based along the life he had as a child. Hawthorne making reference to his hometown brings awareness to the historical time period. Many memories he had as a child fill the pages of the short story “Young Goodman Brown”. It’s a reflection and look back into his life at Salem. 

            Both stories serve the same purpose to tell about a time of personal experience. Each story has a voice that speaks high volumes.  After reading the two stories you find out so many of the same qualities each of the stories shared. Hawthorne and Chopin shared some of the same childhood obstacles and that made them stand out and brought more emphasis to the situations they were faced with. Whether it be about childhood, society, or historical time period  the novels tie together as a whole with many similarities. 















Works Cited



“Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, Stories.” KateChopin.org, www.katechopin.org/biography/.



“Nathaniel Hawthorne Biography.” Encyclopedia of World Biography, www.notablebiographies.com/Gi-He/Hawthorne-Nathaniel.html.



