Thematic Comparison 

The things that we endure throughout life molds us into the people that we become. Everyone’s struggle is different, and this helps us to form our individual perceptions on life and our surroundings. When we write about personal experiences, it is simply a way of unfolding the meanings of our own past and sharing that past with others. Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin have both given readers insight into their individual lives and upbringings. Their personal experiences gave their writings profundity, truth and relatability, and meaning. 

Kate Chopin, born in St. Louis, Missouri in 1850, gave women a voice through her profound writing. Once her father passed, she was raised by her mother, grandmother, and the nuns who mentored her. These were all women, but she grew up in a society where women were expected to live and abide under a male’s dominance. It was expected that women could not be happy without marriage, but she gave women a new voice of freedom and determination. Although it is nice to share love with someone, she did not see it as a necessity to survive and be happy. What she saw growing up was strong, independent, and self-determined women. Her experiences and the society she grew up in gave all her stories profundity. Without knowing the background information, her stories would just be stories with no depth or reasoning behind them. One might read Chopin’s Story of an Hour and assume that she was a crazy woman obsessed about her husband dying, but it is so much deeper than what is on the surface, and that is only understood because we know of her experiences growing up in a stereotypical society.

Nathaniel Hawthorne, through his books and short stories, gave readers a new perspective, and gave literature relatability. He showed readers the perceptions of many people back in that time period. Coming up during the Salem witch trials was life changing because no one really knew who to trust and people lived day by day being skeptical of their surroundings. There are so many lessons to be learned through his writing, even today, that we simply can not get from a story with no truth or explanation behind it. In Hawthorne’s Young Goodman Brown for example, we learn that there is a tiny portion of evil that can be found through all walks of life. Through his symbolic journey into the realm of evil, the forest, we learn that as we go throughout life, there are many things that will be revealed to us; we learn that everyone is not always who they show themselves to be, and honestly, that no one is perfect. If he had not experienced those things that helped to shape his writing, people would not be able to relate easily, and the stories might seem absurd. 

These profound writers have taken their complex childhoods and turned them into literature with meaning. If writers never have the chance to fully experience life and overcome obstacles, literature would be dull, in my opinion. Their experiences throughout life gives literature thrill, excitement, relatability, truth, and most importantly, meaning. It also gives the readers a deeper understanding of what was going on during different time periods. It gives readers a chance to visit different realities, whereas fictional literature creates an imaginary realm where there is little to no truth, and little to no depth or meaning. I love the historical feeling when reading literature that I know is from a truthful experience. 

Personal experiences vary family to family, person to person, but when someone is able to take that experience and turn it into profound literature, it is truly amazing. The things that writers experience throughout life gives them motivation to want to write so they can give their readers new perspectives. If they were to live day to day with no new experiences, what would they write about, and how would it differ from another authors work? 













