

Life and Its Influence on Literature

	Many authors develop their writings from a series of events that perhaps changed something or somebody.  After reading the biographies of Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid, it makes sense as to how their personal experiences shaped such great literature.  Kate Chopin was born in St. Louis, Missouri on February 8, 1850.  As a child, she spent most of her life predominantly surrounded by independent women, which perhaps contributed to her views on women’s roles and influenced her writings.  She grew to have a family of her own but lost her husband, leaving her to raise six children by herself. Nearly a hundred years later on May 25, 1949, Jamaica Kincaid was born on a small island in the West Indies colonized by the British.  Jamaica Kincaid’s influences of literature came from her rough relationship with her mother as she was treated inferior to her younger brothers because she was a female.  She finally moved to the United States and left her family behind. Though these two had very different experiences, both of their writings, specifically Story of an Hour written by Chopin and Girl written by Kincaid, tie back to societal expectations, freedom, and criticism.

	Feminism is a huge theme for both stories as they deal with a woman’s role in society.  Neither Chopin nor Kincaid conformed to society’s standards that were set for women during their time period.  Chopin always attended to her own interests closely rather than what society’s interests were for her, and Kincaid was said to have always had an attitude and to be a troublemaker, which was not the appropriate actions of a lady.  They both could be considered rebels during their time.  Even though both lived about a century apart, women had maintained a demanding role that neither of them wanted to play.  These two stories portray that they grew up in a society where they were supposed to take certain roles, and their writings seem to be ridiculing these roles in which they wanted to break free from.

	Moreover, Chopin and Kincaid did get to experience such freedom, and if it were not for breaking away, we would not have such phenomenal content from these two.  Chopin lost her husband, and though that is very unfortunate, she no longer had to put her focus on serving a man.  During this time period, a woman’s role was to be there for their husband and provide his needs to the best of her ability. She could now focus on what she wanted to do most which was write.  Kincaid broke free by moving to the United States and finally getting away from her abusive mother.  She began writing and started to contribute feminist pieces to the world of literature.  Sadly, she did still fear that her family would mock her for her efforts and disapprove of her contributions.  Both women were heavily criticized for portraying their beliefs in what they wrote.

	However, rather than becoming discouraged, they took that criticism and made some of the most notable literature in history.  Judgement often came from how they took on society as well as portraying their views of society in their stories.  Many of their writings and novels were condemned for having such a strong, controversial tone.  Kincaid had an “angry” tone whereas Chopin had a “vulgar and morbid” tone.  Chopin even had a novel banned from her hometown library and has been challenged in recent years.  This roots back to women having to go by a certain standard which both obviously refused to abide by.  They continued to write how they please and provided quality content.  

	Societal expectations, freedom, and criticism shaped and influenced how Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid wrote.  Both were very different women that went through very different things; however, these different things brought similarities in their writings and the content that they produced.  Regardless of anything that they were held to, they went in the direction that they felt was best for them and not for anyone else. If anything, there is much to learn from these two remarkable women, Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid.



























Works Cited

Clark, Pamela. “Biography, Kate Chopin, The Awakening, The Storm, stories.” KateChopin.org, The Kate Chopin International Society,. 1 March 2018.

“Jamaica Kincaid." YourDictionary, n.d. Web. 1 March 2018..

“The Awakening.” Kate Chopin Biography,. 1 March 2018.

The Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica. “Jamaica Kincaid.” Encyclopædia Britannica,  Encyclopædia Britannica, inc, 28 Jan 2016,. 1 March 2018.

Wyatt, Neal. “Biography of Kate Chopin.” Biography of Kate Chopin, Virginia Commonwealth University, archive.vcu.edu/english/engweb/webtexts/hour/katebio.html. 1 March 2018.

