Life Influences in Authors



	Experiences affect everybody’s life and personality and authors are no different. The way authors are raised and the hardships they go through in their lives influence how and what they write about. The authors we’ve been studying, Jamaica Kincaid, Nathanial Hawthorne, and Kate Chopin, exemplify this fact. After learning about each of their lives the influence is easily noticeable in their works

	Jamaica Kincaid was born with the name Elaine Potter Richardson on Antigua and moved to New York at 16 years old. Her works mirror the society she was born into and the struggles people had to endure. Her works often focus on mother-daughter relationships and it could be assumed that her own relationship with her mother influenced this.

	Nathaniel Hawthorne’s life was more influential to his writings than any other writer we have studied to this point. Hawthorne was born in Salem, Massachusetts in 1804 and was related to a judge involved in the Salem Witch Trials. This relation and him being a Puritan drove not only his literary works but also his life. Hawthorne felt guilty for what his ancestors did during the Salem Witch Trials. These experiences led Hawthorne to have a gloomy writing style based mostly on sin, guilt, and other inner conflicts. His ancestry and religion were not the only influences in his writings; the people surrounding him also influenced his works. Hawthorne was around many brilliant and influential people during his lifetime. He was in close proximity with Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Franklin Pierce, Ralph Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, and a few others in some way during his life. These people were renowned authors and influential politicians. All these things can be seen influencing most of his works.

	Kate Chopin was born from a French father and American Mother making her multicultural and helped her fit into different societies. French life influenced her literary works as well as tragedies during her life. Her father and great grandmother mother both died during her childhood and her husband died later in her life. Chopin’s childhood of tragedy and good mentorship by strong women influenced her writings.

	Even though successful writers are viewed as different from average people their biographies prove that they were not much different. Authors are as influenced, if not more, by our past as anybody else.

	