Social Media Substituting Reality	

Social media has become an all-consuming addiction for many people in the younger generations. Online networking has made face-to-face conversations and real-life experiences few and far between. The simplicity behind social-networking is serving to replace any action within people’s realities, because it only takes the effort of their fingers and brains. People, especially the young, are using social media as an outlet to escape their real social lives. Due to the nature of humans and the accessibility of the internet, social media now provides the world with a shield to hide behind, a channel to avoid living in the moment, and a false sense of companionship.

Social-networking provides a sort-of electronic mask to individuals. Instead of relaying messages face-to-face, young people freely express themselves through typed-out instant messaging, or on sites with “post” options. When the younger generations struggle with conflict, they tend to handle the situations through the screen of a device, instead of discussing the matter in person. Expressing their opinions is easier than ever because they do not have to deal with the confrontation of the opposing side. The veil that the internet provides, works as an alternative for solving problems in everyday life.  People use social-networking to become everything they wish they were, instead of who they are. A perfect example of substituting social media for a real social life can be found at the gym; why work out when you when you can photoshop yourself online? This mindset is what poisons the younger generations today. Having no regard for the experience of being active, people continuously alter their figure in pictures instead of working towards making their dream appearance a reality. Social media allows people to become whoever, say whatever, and do whatever, without moving from the screen of their device.

Due to addictive social-networking sites, living in the moment is a difficult task for the younger generations.  There is a commonly known quote that has erupted over the previous years that states, “if you did not take a picture, then it must have not have happened.”  This can be seen in restaurants, as individuals feel the need to document their meals by posting pictures of their savory treats. The flow of conversation at the dinner table is interrupted once the waiter provides the food, all because social-networking sites need to see the cuisine said person is consuming. This situation clearly illustrates the difficult time young people have with living in the moment, as a simple dinner cannot be completed without the distraction of the internet. Social-networking sites have granted the world the epitome of laziness, as everything is now available at its finger tips. For example, instead of going to the beach, people can search social-media friend’s pages for nice views of the water and sand. Due to social media, young people find it daunting to get up and do life in general. Social-networking sites are essentially stripping the generations of their lives, and therefore the internet is comparable to the world’s best thief. 

Not only do younger generations fail to live in the moment, but they also do not seem to realize that a key factor to living a fulfilling life, is simply companionship. Living life alone would be miserable, but social media instills this isolation without anyone realizing. Social media appears to make people look very popular and happy, but in some cases, it is all a façade. The concept that because someone has one-thousand friends on Facebook, must mean that they have never experienced loneliness is complete blasphemy.  From personal experience, I have known girls that get thousands of likes from their electronic friends on their photos on social-networking sites, yet still struggle to be content with their friends in their actual lives. This all stems from the internet creating feelings of popularity and inclusiveness, but this constantly brings people a false sense of happiness. If we all had thousands of actual friends, think of how small the world would seem. Having all the so-called electronic “companions,” leads people to resist the urge to go out into the world and speak to others, as they feel that they have an abundance of friends as it is. The internet has swept in and stolen real joy by providing people with a false sense of friendship in their internet followers.  

While social networking sites do provide great outlets for worldwide communication, they have slowly become substitutes for individuals’ real lives. The main culprit responsible for young generations struggling to face reality is the internet. Social media makes being yourself near impossible, as so many people find themselves creating this new identity on the web. Being present in day-to-day life has also proven difficult for younger people, as they struggle to realize the important things in life sometimes cannot be captured by a camera lens. Networking sites have created faux friendships and unrealistic senses of true and pure solace. The benefits of social-networking sites are undeniable, as happy marriages and long-term friendships have emerged from its abilities, but the problems that arise because of human nature and the internet’s capabilities are deafening. Younger people struggle to seek and form their own identity. Defining who you are and what you stand for, all springs from your courses of actions. You live life, make mistakes, and hopefully succeed in fulfilling your dreams; these experiences mold your personality. If you do nothing but hide behind a screen and never experience a thing, then how will you even know who you are?











