Sexual Education in School Systems

An issue among school boards everywhere is how educators should go about teaching sexual education (or if they even should). Students begin to learn about sex at a very young age and from various sources. While some of the sources may be helpful and reliable, some may not be accurate or appropriate for learning about such an important and potentially life altering act. By teaching students at an appropriate age about sex, more people could be better informed and make decisions that could lead to healthier lives and relationships. There are many important reasons that schools should require sexual education in the curriculum including informing students basic knowledge about their bodies, risk factors involving sex, and health issues of the reproductive organs.

      Many people are uneducated on the basic knowledge of sex and sexual organs. At a certain age, it is assumed that students know what sex is and how it happens; however, this is not always the case. At this point, it can come embarrassing for a student to ask about sex if there are uncertainties or just curiosity. In the age of technology that students live in, the internet is always an option but not always the best option. Sexual education should be taught to students around the age of puberty so that students can learn and understand the changes that their body is going through and why the changes are happening. Puberty is hard but teaching the students about it and why it has to happen could alleviate some of the difficulties associated with puberty. Basic knowledge and understanding of sex and puberty is essential and beneficial to students.  

       The knowledge of potential dangers of having sex is also something students should be aware of. Risk factors associated with sex is by far the absolute most important reason that sexual education should be a requirement for students at all schools. So many students are never taught about the risks and the methods that can be used to prevent or lessen the likelihood of the risks by their parents or guardians or anyone. While the risks range from mild to life threatening, it is something that all people should be given the opportunity to learn about in the correct manner. Many students are not informed correctly about the chance of pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases and the ways of transmission. There are many myths about pregnancy and prevention that many people believe and are never taught any different. For example, a girl cannot get pregnant during her menstrual cycle. Myths such as this cause people especially young people not to take the proper precautions resulting in pregnancy. Some students are never taught that diseases can be transmitted through oral sex or skin to skin contact or even just by kissing. There is an assumption that it must be sexual intercourse for diseases to be transmitted or that there will be noticeable symptoms. These facts are important for students and, with the proper education, these risk factors could potentially be prevented. 

          The risk factors of sex are not the only things that could be threatening students’ lives if they are not educated. Teaching students about health issues that are related to sexual organs could save lives. While there are some health issues that show no signs or symptoms, there are others that could lead a person to know when there is something wrong with their body. Many cancers are easier to treat when detected at an early stage. If people were more educated about the signs and symptoms that can occur, there would be an opportunity for early detection. There is so much focus on the health of female sex organs, which is a positive thing, but there is not enough awareness for males and the cancers and problems that can occur for men. Not enough awareness and education for men could lead to more problems men. While there is more awareness for females, there could never be too much awareness or education for females or males and education within the school systems would be helpful. There are many health issues other than cancer that most students are unaware of that can cause several problems such as pain and the inability to reproduce. Accurate information about sexual health issues are fundamental to a healthy life for all people. 

        Students should have the privilege of receiving sex education from professionals within the school system. The basic knowledge, risk factors, and health issues represent only a small portion of the importance of sex education. People could benefit from the information is various ways leading to healthier relationships and healthier lives for themselves. All aspects of sexual education are vital to the well-being of students and should be taught without hesitation. 

