 In the year of 1955, the Vietnam War has broke out between Northern and Southern Vietnam. One decade later America joined the Vietnam war on the side of the South Vietnam. The United States had believed without there help of fighting this war, Vietnam could possibly fully turn into a communist country and they didn’t want the communism to spread like it did when it took over China. This fight with the American involvement was shown to be under the radar to how much the American citizens knew about what was going on and even if they were winning. Without much information the citizens seemed to become skeptical and wanting to understand more. A Civil Rights leader was very skeptical about this whole war, he took it into his own hands to speak about it at Riverside Church in New York on April 30, 1967. 

Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. presented a sermon in which he speaks on why he opposes the Vietnam War in seven different reasons. The seven many reasons were about the truth revealing the United States’ poverty, manipulation of the poor, his Nobel Peace Prize commission, the government’s sabotage and destroying other nations, and lastly, the disappointment he felt with his nation for not being a moral example of the world to look up at. Dr. King strongly believed that the whole Vietnam War is using too much money to provide weapons to kill the Vietnamese soldiers instead of using the money to invest into the Poverty Program for the improvement for new beginnings for poor African Americans and Whites. This had lead to the start of Dr. King being convinced that the war was a enemy of the poor citizens giving them less hope. 

Not only did the poor seem to lose hope with the Poverty Program, they ended up losing their own children with the help of the draft into the Vietnam War. Dr. King had wanted the poor African Americans to understand that it is best to refuse to go into the draft no matter the consequences since the war is there enemy killing them off after being promised with liberties eight thousand miles away in which they haven’t even received in their hometown. Resulting, one man name Cassius Clay, a boxer, had refused to going to the war which lead to Dr. King praising him for his bravery and taking a stand. In the end, high percentages of the men killed in war were these poor men and young children who experienced this cruel manipulation.

Dr. King is one who believes in the war being “unjust and that nonviolence, not violence  is the answer to international problems. Non-Violence approaches could be less dangerous yet, when you have and for what event had changed the views of the protesters by the inconsistency of the government and the media. According to Dr. King, the press looked him nobally for being non-violent towards white politicians and segregationists, yet the government will switch up on King for wanting to be non-violent against the young Vietnamese children.  The various views given from simple non-violent protests made many of the Civil Rights Activists confused but it didn’t stop the leaders of the movement to continue exercising what they believed what was right. Due to his non-violent protesting and consistency to establish peace, Dr. King had received his Nobel Peace Prize. He was then convinced that he needed to live up to the standards of what the Nobel Peace Prize stands for, peace. This gave him a “mission to work harder for peace”  by bring all people together no matter what race, religion, skin color, etc. in order to work together to defect the curse of continuous war.  Yet, bring people together was a hard ship to sail since the government enjoyed keeping the American citizens out of the truth of the war.

Even after the United States had helped Vietnam reclaim their independence in 1945 the U.S. government had took it under their own hands to fight with France to re-claim Vietnam. Once Dr. King told this truth of the government’s actions he continued to explain that the government had ignored the Vietnamese after they quoted the U.S. Declaration of Independence and persisted to increase war costs, sabotage the Geneva Accords, and supporting a ruthless dictator named Diem and General Ky, in which idolized Hitler. American government had switched up from fighting against communism expansion to supporting the wicked men of power in Vietnam who have no problem killing innocent people off or any reason they can think up. 

American supported these cruel rulers then suddenly, our government had helped these men with their insanity. The U.S. Government had became the real enemies of foreign countries after being promised peace, democracy, and land reform, but instead being herded off land into concentration camps. Dr. King stated that our government had moved these people even though we were bombing their current land killing off their crops and poisoning their water, making these women, children and men suffer while begging for mercy.  As a country, our government stands before us and continues to hurt other countries and stripping the human race of their true values. Dr. King is speaking out against the war because of his “passionate desire to see our beloved country stand as the moral example of the world,” but this hypocritical government persists to disappoint. Dr, King’s many reasons for him to oppose the war was a way he wanted to show that there needed to be a change, a revolution, but many had different opinions. 

King’s stance had opened up an array of doubters on his Civil Rights stance. The Freedom House had made criticisms about Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the former Alabama Governor George Wallace. Freedom House was in support of President Johnson’s idea of fighting in order to contain the communist aggression towards Southern Vietnam while they attacked Kings stance of a peace movement.  A Dean from Notre Dame Law School named, Joseph O’Meara, also opposed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.. O’Meara had expressed that the opposers of war are people who were “communists or traitors or cowards,” thus including Dr. King and Stokely Carmichael. Not only did King get criticized by writers of Newspapers but even African American Senators stood to talk about his thoughts on Dr. King’s speech. 

Senator Edward W. Brooke is a Negro Official who is strongly convinced that Dr. King’s approach of involving the Civil Rights movement with the Vietnam War was a costly choice that could potentially end the movement. Brooke is under the impression that Dr. King has made a mistake and his judgement is off, he even states that the Civil Rights movement is losing their support since King distinguished this war as a Negro war and by having these men refuse to go to war, it will hurt them by being so dangerous. In the end, Brooke will oppose this outlook but will not advice the many troops fighting to hold fire since that will cause a terrible backlash on America. Brooke’s thoughts showed a different outcome of what King presented to the American Citizens if they followed his view. 
	Many have believed in the possibility of Dr. King influencing the 1968 Presidential Election. Following the speech of Dr. King, The Harris Survey had collected polls of many citizens who agreed, disagreed, and reserved judgements. From all of the Americans of the United States, the polls showed that 73% of them had disagreed with Dr. King and 60% of Americans also had believed that his position of the Vietnam War will damage the Civil Rights movement. Since the Civil Rights movement is majority consisting  of African American supporters, their thoughts on Dr. King’s stance is highly important. Between the African American group of individuals about 48% of them had disagreed with Dr. King, 25% had agreed, and 27% had reserved their own judgement on the speech. The Presidential Election could only be influenced by Dr. King’s speech due to his African American supporters siding with him and following his thoughts of who Dr. King believed who was fit to become president. Dr. King opposed President Johnson due to the Vietnam War, yet he did support Senator Robert F. Kennedy and Senator Charles H. Percy. Since Dr. King had announced the two Senators he had believe to be fit to be president, King could have possibly influenced a third to one half of his supporters with who to potentially vote for in the Presidential Election. Thus, about 25% of the African American votes may be the deciding factor of who will win the Presidential Election of 1968.  Votes seemed to be most important some some citizens but all Dr. King was trying to do was start to get people thinking and demand a more rapid change in the United States.

Dr. King may have changed many individual’s views, but he has shown people his stance that he isn’t backing off of whether people approved or not. Critics have bashed on him for being so inconsiderate about safety within some reasons of his sermon. Dr. King will fight and won’t stop fighting for the society to become more person-oriented and for America to stop worrying about the racism, militarism, and economic exploitation.  Change is needed for the poor who are waiting on the Poverty Program, the Civil Rights movement, and for the U.S. government in order to assemble a better nation to become a model for other nations. A better nation can establish a more peaceful world with less war. 