Diagnostic Essay

	In modern day America, nearly every young person can be seen with some kind of electronic device in their hands at some point during every day. For this reason, social media has drastically affected the wat that the modern teenager interacts with their peers. Since these sites have invaded the majority of most young people’s free time it has become the most common form of communication and has nearly replaced a real social life. This alternate form of communication has become the favored choice of communication. This is because most of the younger generations enjoy the freedoms that accompany online chatting. Some of the many freedoms to online communication include creating a different self-image, hiding behind a screen, and freely indulging in personal pleasures.

	Feeling free can be an addictive feeling which is why so many people create an alternative reality online. This could include anything from simply being more “outgoing” or upfront with personal opinions, to creating a false profile using someone else’s pictures. Many people do this to escape their own reality, to become someone who is the person that they want to be. This is often a defense mechanism to keep from accepting who they actually are. This is a huge benefactor to the enlargement of the self-image. The constant access to see other people’s lives has caused many people to feel that they must “put on a show”. 

	Secondly, when online, many people are able to disconnect the fact that there are real people on the other side of the screen.  This has increased bullying, cheating, and outright rudeness. When behind a screen, people feel free to say whatever they think. This freedom encourages young people to continue living through a screen, because they can do what they want without being known.

	Lastly, the secrecy that is brought on by the online world has allowed people to cheat and lie much more easily than in the past. The guilty pleasures are not as “guilty” when no one else has to know. Again, the freedom encourages the continuation of the online universe.

	Freedom is the goal of most people, the freedom to create one’s self, to say what one thinks, and to do what one wants. This is why the young people of today choose to live online. The freedom is too good to lose.













