Social-Networking Sites

	Most young people in today’s society social-networking sites. I believe this is a substitution for real social life rather than an enhancement. Social-networking can be used for good if used by adults and used wisely. Young people spend more time on social-networking sites than in person, they lose social skills for face-to-face conversations, and social-networking sites make it easier for young people to learn to lie and be dishonest. 

	Young people spend way more time on their social-networking than they talk to one another face-to-face. Young people spend hours scrolling through Facebook and snapchatting people and never leave their house or bedroom. I see so many people at restaurants eating together with their friends, and they are all on their phones on social-networking sites and not talking or spending time with each other. This is not a good thing. They are substituting communicating with each other for social-networking when they should be talking to each other. 

	Young people lose social skills while only communicating on social-networking sites rather than gain them. People get so use to chatting online on Facebook using emojis and text slang that when they are communicating face-to-face they do not know how to react. On social-networking sites it is easy to get a chat from someone and spend a long time thinking about a perfect response to send them back, so when a person is face-to-face they feel awkward not knowing what to say to someone because they are used to thinking about it for a while. Some young people actually avoid communicating for this very reason, to have time to think about what they want to say and type it out rather than have to say it. This makes people less social.

	Social-networking sites make being dishonest or lying a lot easier then while talking in person. On Facebook young people type whatever they want and can make up lies about other people that they never would have said out loud while talking face-to-face. Also, young people miscommunicate a lot on social-networking. It is easy for someone to take something the wrong way and believe things that are not necessarily true. These things could be avoided if young people did not use social-networking as a substitution for their real social lives.

	So many things get substituted in young people’s lives while always using social-networking sites. I believe social-networking sites can make young people’s real social lives harder because of all this. However, I do not believe it is a substituted the same way for adults. Young people think differently than adults, therefor it is easier for their social lives to be substituted by social-networking because they do not fully understand how to be social.  