
	The transition from high school to college can be rough for all subjects but the transition for english is the most difficult because of how high school and college is set up. One focuses more on a set up that is faster to grade and is easy for anyone to follow and the other one is more of complex free writing where there is structure and where you have no limit on your topic. College and high school writing have their big differences with the style of writing, length and topics wise. The reasons the transition can be difficult is because in high school we were taught how to write an essay but with they did not go into full detail. It seemed that most teachers taught what they needed to teach so the students could pass the tests such as the SATs and other standardized tests. In college we are writing for what we want to study with lab reports or critical thinking papers. Also we have more of a free range of writing in college so the expectations will be higher but so will the quality of the writings.   

	In high school the essays were more bland because of the structure we had to use. We were use to it being a five paragraph essay all the time and it just being an intro, three body and an conclusion. The types of essays we were taught to write were bare minimum and had almost no details with little research put into it. Which is understandable because the high school teachers don't have the freedom to have their own plan set up they have more regulations with them having to follow the guidelines for the test we have to take. If they were to try to put their own plans out it would be difficult because they won't have time to do it or the regulations probably won't let them. They can’t go back and teach grammar because they don't have the time to or if they do it is usually assigned as homework but never really looked at just hope you did it. Also the topics are a little more detailed than the ones we have here in college because in high school we have that formula the topic is self explanatory because they want you to get straight to the point but also include as much detail as possible.

	In college you have the guidelines but you have the freedom and can break that cycle of the five paragraph essay and be more creative with your writing. The only thing I find the most difficult it is the topic and the length. The topics are more broad and you can write anything you want but it has to be in that category. You have to choose the information wisely so you don’t add unnecessary information because that would not be relevant and could lower your credibility as an author. I have had to write an essay before where it could be anything that had to do with music or dance so I could have gone in any direction I wanted it just had to be with in that category. What made it difficult to me was having to narrow it down and see what dance categories I wanted to do and what music can go with that dance. When you have all that freedom it makes it difficult for someone to make first step and just decide where you are going to start. Once you made that decision the next step is, how are you going to organize your ideas and can you lengthen it for how long your assainmet needs to be. Once in college it is not just one page essay anymore you have to write more. More words and more pages but the good thing about this is that you finally get to go into that detail and do all the research you wanted to do and put it into your paper. 

	In high school the main type of essays you would write is informative or reacher papers where in college you are writing more of academic writings. These writings are more sophisticated, you are writing with a bigger vocabulary and more with a purpose. Some of the papers you do in college could be sent to a newspaper or somewhere where your writing can be read by everyone. It can be intimidating because in college you are more pressured because you have these high expectations right when you come in to college, but in reality you just came from writing one page essays to eight page essays with high vocabulary. You have to already know the basics but everyone is on different levels like for me I have trouble with the high vocabulary and simple grammar errors that were not enforce when I was being taught. 

	College and high school have their different purposes for the level we are at but it would make it easier if we could do something that would make the transition easier and we won't be so stressed when it comes to those long essays. Maybe have workshops that can help students write college essays while they are in college or give some strategies that might help in the long run. Even just the little things can make this easier for us so we don't feel like every paper we have to write is going to be awful because we feel like we weren't prepared enough. 

	