Upside and Down of Gaming Addiction
    Over the past decade or so, the evolution of gaming has rapidly increased. Gaming has become one of the biggest social platforms for young people to interact with one another over a wireless network. Although gaming brings people together, there is also a downside. Gaming has become so addictive that young millenials are beginning to prioritize fun over their education. This may result in a decrease in student graduation rates. Students are a major target for gaming companies due to the idea that students tend to have busy lives and look for a way to make their lives more relaxing by resorting to video games. Video games can be seen as an alternate reality in which the individual playing is immersed into the game rather than real life.
    In Jonathan Craton’s article, “The Effect of Videogames on Student Achievement,” data was collected from a survey taken by students attending UCLA. In this study, it was discovered that many college students aim towards video games as a primary source of entertainment. It has also been discovered that there is a major difference in the amount of males who play video games rather than females. For instance, “While less than 1 in 50 incoming freshmen women played more than 10 hours of video games per week, 1 in 10 males admitted to doing this” (UCLA Higher Education Research Institute, 2009). As a result, women have surpassed men in regards to grade point averages, according to Tamar Lewin in his article, “At Colleges, Women Are Leaving Men in the Dust.” For example, an image is shown in which two college football players are sitting at a desk with a female and the caption states, “Victor Johnson, center, and Dennis Nelson, football players at Dickinson College, teased each other about never wanting to be seen in the library. They talked about playing a football video game six hours a day, at the expense of homework” (Chris Keane for the New York Times). This is a prime example of students, primarily men, who spend most of their free time playing video games rather than completing homework. This also expands on the idea of how addicting games can be. Six hours a day playing video games is already a quarter of the day, wasted time that could be used for productive purposes.
    Some may say that violent video games may be the spark that makes students decide to make poor decisions. A majority of the video games being played by students are considered violent games, usually rated M for mature. A lot of these games consists of gun violence which does nothing provide negative ideas to students. Consistently being involved in violent video games may cause negative psychological effects on students. It is logical to believe that violent video games result in increased aggression. For instance, according to Jonathan Craton’s research, he discovered, “...there is at least a modest link between electronic media consumption and obesity, smoking, drinking, and violence” (Craton). Although college students fall under the category of a mature audience and should have the freedom of picking and choosing how they live their life, violent video games still play a major role in who they are as an individual and what they choose to do. 
On the other hand, people may say that being addicted to games offers a variety of different benefits. For instance, gaming can be considered another form of exercise for the brain. According to Karen Reed’s article “12 Surprising Health Benefits of Playing Video Games” she claims that playing games can be a way to overcome dyslexia. She states, “The benefit of computer games is that they force you to concentrate for long periods of time” (Reed). Games have a tendency to cause people to stay focused and feel as if they must complete a certain task. Following directions and obeying the rules in order to achieve victory can be considered a major rule to live by. It is also scientifically proven that games can improve your mental health. For example, Reed states, “You’ll also feel good about yourself as your memory improves and you beat your high scores. So, while you get a boost of serotonin, you’ll also get a boost of cells. Your hippocampus grows, and you’re at a lower risk for developing the likes of Alzheimer’s and dementia in later life” (Reed). Although these benefits seem good enough for the average gamer to continue gaming, it is not convincing enough for people who are not already addicted to games to start.
    The addiction of gaming has gotten the attention of Donald Trump. In a White House meeting, Trump discussed the potential reasons as to why mass shootings are occurring. He is under the impression that violent video games are not doing us any favor. In Susan Scutti’s article “Do video games lead to violence?” she states that an 18-year old gunman who murdered nine people with a gun was addicted to violent games. On the other hand, Whitney DeCamp came to the conclusion that violent video games do not lead to violent behavior from the information he conducted from a 2008 Delaware School Survey, which included responses from 6,567 eighth-graders. For instance, “Among the questions, students were asked whether they had played violent video games in the past year. DeCamp factored out the propensity to play violent video games (due to a natural attraction to brutality) along with other factors, such as gender and family relations” (Scutti). In addition,  the associate professor and co-chairman of the Department of Psychology at Stetson University, Christopher Ferguson believes that violent video games do the opposite of causing violent behaviors. Ferguson states that violent video games allow people who have anger inside of them quietly release their anger without physically harming anyone or anything. This is the most logical explanation of the effects violent video games have on people. Individuals who are not mentally stable have the opportunity to release their anger out through video games rather than taking their anger out on people. 
Although gaming has both its pros and cons, it will forever continue to expand. Although gaming has become a hindrance to the advancement of educational success, it can also benefit people.














Work Cited:
Reed, Karen. “12 Surprising Health Benefits of Playing Video Games.” Positive Health Wellness, 3 Nov. 2017, www.positivehealthwellness.com/fitness/12-surprising-health-benefits-playing-video-games/.
Scutti, Susan. “Do Video Games Lead to Violence?” CNN, Cable News Network, 22 Feb. 2018, www.cnn.com/2016/07/25/health/video-games-and-violence/index.html.