“Age of Reason” is one that brings questioning and curiosity to the ones who read it. Paine states what he believes in and also what he does not believe. He believes in one God and also the equality of man. Paine states that religious institutions are only used as monopolies and to control mankind. He also makes numerous comparisons in order to explain his beliefs, such as the mechanical perspective. Paine believes that religion is used as a scare tactic. He also states there is a connection between church and state and when this connection is destroyed, individuals may be brought up in the world with the belief of one God. 

I have similar thoughts as to what Paine says in his work. I believe there is a God of some sort, but I do not necessarily believe in the theology behind it. He thinks man should discover ideas on their own and not by receiving revelations from God himself. I also agree with Paine when he says, “My mind is my own church,” because I think your thoughts control what actions you make and if you make a wrong choice then you can just think positively and make sure to make the right choice next time. I also think that society has a huge impact on what you believe. 

In today’s society everything is focused around technology. One can look up any subject and find information and this allows for more discovery and questioning on what is real. However, technology can also have a negative impact on individuals and their beliefs’ since anyone is able to release information on the Internet, even if it is not true. This is completely different from Paine’s era. The reason for his writing was to enlighten people’s ideas and to make the individual think. I feel as if the Bible and religion work in the same way. Anyone could have written it and there is no actual proof it came from God himself. I agree with Paine’s writing and feel as if individuals should know right from wrong by the actions and experiences that the individual goes through. I also think that one can have good morals and be a productive citizen without worshiping and believing in God. I believe that everyone should have some doubt in their mind. Paine states that everything goes back to science and without these principles there would be no art in the world. One must be curious as to how God gave man all of these abilities to produce unexplainable moments. However, I do believe in miracles unlike the deistic view. So to conclude, religion in my opinion is just what you make of it. Everyone perceives things differently and with all of this said, I believe that everyone has their own right to believe what they want.