Diagnostic Essay

	Throughout this generation, social media sites such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Instagram have become a massive part of our everyday lives. These networking applications are harmful because they serve as a mediocre substitute for a real social interaction. Humans are suffering from this knock off conversation because social media offers no personal interaction, drives a wedge between relationships, and it influences cowardice behavior.

	Have you ever received a text message that sounded rude or harsh, but was not intended to be? This is a common fault found on social networking sites. Humans rely on body language and tone of voice to decipher the mood of a conversation, and without this key piece of personal interaction, a simple Facebook post can become a complete misunderstanding. According to psychology today, “55% of communication is body language, 38% is the tone of voice, and 7% is the actual words spoken.” The weight of body language and the way you say things far surpass what words you actually say. 

	Additionally, people substitute real interaction with social media. The average American eats fast food four times a week, and a common sight to see is a family sitting at a dinner, but in deep silence as everyone is too concentrated on their online lives to interact with those sitting right next to them. People are too involved with their online portrayal to focus on their real family, friends, and lives. Furthermore, relationships with others are jeopardized because of social media influences. Due to the lack of interpersonal communication skills, it is harder for millennials to grow and keep healthy genuine friendships and relationships alike. 

	In comparison, bullying has significantly increased since the creation of social networking. It allows cowards to hide behind a computer screen, lie about their true identity, and publicly shame those that they are jealous of. Not only does social media create and enable bullying, but it makes people much shyer and socially awkward. An astounding “68% of millennials avoid face-to-face conversation,” which in some cases can make it more difficult for young people to get specific jobs that require communication skills. Without the comfort of a computer or phone screen, millennials experience difficulty having and creating oral communication. 

	In conclusion, social networking has clearly affected today’s youth and adults in a very negative way. Facebook, Snapchat, and Instagram have done more harm than good by providing people with a knock off social life. Additionally, these social networking sites have tampered with our personal relationships, interactions, and helped to create wimpy bullies. 

	

	















Works Cited

Thompson, Jeff. “Is Nonverbal Communication a Numbers Game?” Psychology Today, Sussex 

Publishers, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/beyond-words/201109/is-nonverbal-communication-numbers-game.

Hrustic, Alisa. “Young People Don't Know How to Talk To Each Other Anymore.” Men's 

Health, 29 Mar. 2017, www.menshealth.com/guy-wisdom/millennials-awkward-conversations.

Hamm, Trent. “Common Dollars and Sense: Eating Less Fast Food Does a Body Good.” The  

Christian Science Monitor, The Christian Science Monitor, 10 July 2012, www.csmonitor.com/Business/The-Simple-Dollar/2012/0710/Common-dollars-and-sense-Eating-less-fast-food-does-a-body-good.

