Two Authors Essay

 Oftentimes, an author’s work is reflective of their own personal life. They incorporate past experiences and memories into their works, making what they write more symbolic. This is true in the case of Kate Chopin and Nathaniel Hawthorne. The two writers are similar in the way that they each base many of their stories on events that have impacted their lives. Both authors grew up in influential times periods, experienced some sort of tragedy and both present a message of social injustice. 

One element that both authors share is that they both grew up in historic time periods or around historic events. Nathaniel Hawthorne was born in Salem Massachusetts, a few generations after the Salem witch trials. His grandfather was a judge during the trials who sentenced those convicted of witchcraft to death. Hawthorne was greatly affected by his family’s dark history, which is why many of his works include witchcraft and devil worship, as shown in the story “Young Goodman Brown.” Similarly, Kate Chopin grew up in St. Louis Missouri during the civil war. She grew up in a time of slavery and was believed to have had slaves. Chopin’s “Story of an Hour” tells of a woman who is restricted to the cultural norms of the time period and confined to the role of a household women. This is likely because she witnessed firsthand, people who lacked basic human rights.

Another similarity between Nathaniel Hawthorne and Kate Chopin was the prevalence of death that surrounded their lives. Chopin was exposed to much tragedy early on in her life, and experienced reoccurring loss. When she was only five years old, her father was killed in a railroad accident; Only a few years later her grandmother, who had played an influential role in her life, also passed away. To make matters worse, her brother was killed while serving for the confederacy during the Civil War. Consequently, Chopin’s “story of an hour” reflects a sense of darkness or depression as shown through specific events in her life. Likewise, Hawthorne’s life was not exempt from sorrow either. While living in Salem, his mother died soon after he lost his job. He later moved out of Salem, never to return. This is shown in his work “Young Goodman Brown”, as Mr. Goodman loses all his faith and trust for all the towns people including his wife. The town has a way of destroying lives as shown in Hawthorne’s writing.

Lastly, both writers have a very similar writing style and purpose for what they wrote. Their stories have a dark, yet romantic touch that play on the social normality of that time period. Nathaniel Hawthorne’s motive when writing “Young Goodman Brown” was to dispute the religious hypocrisy of the time. Religion was organized and lacked a real sense of freedom as portrayed by Mr. Goodman who loses all trust and respect for everyone in the town. Additionally, Kate Chopin’s story portrays a scene of social injustice towards a lack of women’s rights. Chopin had strong views about equality for both men and women and believed that they should have equal opportunities. This is because it was a common trend in society for women to be inferior and hold a lesser role in society than their male counterparts. This is illustrated by the character, Mrs. Mallard after her husband’s death. At first, she is struck with grief; however, soon finds herself overwhelmed with a new sense of freedom as she is no longer submitting to her husband.

           Both Hawthorne and Chopin are similar in the sense that they write stories based on past experiences that has affected them in some way. Additionally, both authors use writing as a way to voice their opinions on cultural norms and social injustice. These attributes can be seen time and time again throughout their writing. Lastly, although the authors are not from the same time period, they share similarities in the content of their work, and present common trends behind the purpose of creating these pieces.  

     