Issues of education in America



	The fact of education being very competitive worldwide today you can see how American education can be a issue in many ways such as money and the lack of many opportunities it does not give everybody. These two novels “Finland’s school success” by Anu Partanen and “Fremont High school” by Jonathan Kozol both novels explain the issues of education in in two different arguments. Anu by talking about how education in Finland is different from education in America and Kozol interpreting how the education in Fremont high school is disturbed due to the school being in not so good conditions.

	In his novel “Fremont High School” Jonathan Kozol talks about the bad conditions in Fremont high school and explains how it is affecting the students education. One way how Fremont High disturbs the education of a student is by the school not being ran properly and the school not being in great conditions. For instance jonathan Kozol mentions that their neighborhood fortress is protected by a eight foot steel fence that is topped by spikes, and their school windows are shield from gunfire this sets a bad reputation for a student because by a students viewing the school like that it gives them a bad vibe about how they feel by attending Fremont high. Another problem is that 40 classes are located in portables and in storage closets which Kozol mention that these classrooms are windowless and nasty. So for a student being in a classroom that is not in good conditions. How will this help them get educated properly if students don’t have a good condition working area for them to focus. When student needed to do research or had to use the library they hardly had a chance to use it because it was always closed. Also Kozol mentions that Fremont high had 15 fewer bathrooms than the law requires and that students could not use the bathroom at lunch which are 30 minutes. He says that students can only use the bathroom during class. Mireya also mentions that the open bathrooms are “unclean” and “lack basic supplies,” including toilet paper.(718) Not only that but Fremont is ran very poorly because the school doesn’t provide students with good teachers for them to pass and understand  their courses. For example “One strategy for staffing classes in these three and four track schools when substitutes could not be found was to assign a teacher who was not on “on track” that is, a teacher who was on vacation to come back to school and fill in for the missing teacher.” (Kozol 721). Therefore students are falling behind due to off track teachers. Also fremont high does not have good control on their staff. “Just yesterday I was subbing for a substitute who was subbing for a teacher who never shows up,” a teacher told the ACLU lawyers. “That’s one scenario ….” He explains how staffing in Fremont high are not ran very well if there's a sub for a sub because teachers don’t want to show up. By not having good teachers Jonathan Kozol mentions that ninth graders are reading below their level for instance he mentions that they read at a fourth or fifth grade level and only a third read at grade level or below(716).  Another problem that students face at Fremont high is that students are taking unnecessary classes. Such as sewing class, life skills and hairdressing even those students who had high hopes for their career“ A tall black student, for example, told me that she hoped to be a social worker or a doctor but was programmed into sewing class” this year. She also had to take another course ,called “Life skills,” which she told me was a very basic course “a retarded class,” to use her words that “teaches things like the six continents,” which she said she’d learned in elementary school”.(Kozol 719-720). When he asked her why she had to take those course she told him that they were required. In this novel you can see some of the issues that we face in American education.

	In her novel “Finland’s school success” Anu Partanen talks about the difference of education in finland and education in America. In finland the expectations are very different than from America for instance in Finland Anu Partanen tells us that there are no private schools in Finland and that the students don't take standardized test as they do in America. The only test required in Finland is the National Matriculation Exam. “Sahlberg mentions that there are only a small number of independent schools exist in Finland and none are allowed to charge tuition because they are publicly financed and that there are no private universities either so he tells us that everyone in Finland attend a public school. “Like many of America’s best school, Dwight is a private institution that cost high school students upward of $35,000 a year to attend.”(qtd sahlberg 978). This affects America's education because many students are being charged to attend high school per year. Some of the requirements Finland have sahlberg says that in order for a teacher to be able to teach at Finland that they must have their master's degree and that if the teachers are bad that it is the principal's responsibility for them to notice. He says that there are no schools like Dwight in Finland only in America. “The problem facing education in America isn’t there ethnic diversity of the population but the economic inequality of society, and this is precisely the problem that Finnish education reform addressed. More equity at home might just be what America needs to be more competitive aboard.”(Anu Partanen 982) In this quote she mention what America needs to improve their education but what do you believe needs to happen to improve America’s education. In “Finland’s School success” sahlberg also tells us that in America parents have the option to take their kids out school and put them into private schools and in Finland parents also have the same option it just depends on the choices parents also make. Sahlberg says that schools should be healthy,safe environments for children. So Finland offers free meals ,healthcare, psychological counseling and individual guidance (980). In some schools students are not provided with some of those things.

Going back to the issues from both novels  “Fremont High School” by Jonathan Kozol and “Finland’s School success” by Anu Partanen we can see the different arguments they make about the issues of America’s education for instance after talking about both novels we know that what Kozol was arguing was that because of Fremont was in bad condition that interrupted the students education because it is not fair for a student to attend a school that is not run properly because the administrators and staff were not responsible enough and did not take seriously the education of students. What Anu Partanen was arguing was that education in America should look like Finland's education because due to the rules in the district many students miss out in education because they either can’t afford to go to school or because just how the school is being ran.

In conclusion we can conclude that education has it’s issues do to the lack of staff not doing their job correctly and because students don’t have the guidance to be lead to success because of the conditions they are in because of poor education they are receiving. Students have a hard time because they are not provided with the correct utensils or a good workplace for them to do their assignments. Think about would you like to attend Fremont and receive the poor education students are receiving? After reading this paper I hope you understand how poor education can affect a lot of students from moving forward and being successful.  

  

WordCount:1312




Work cited



Bullock,Richard,Goggin,Maureen D.The Norton Field Guide.New York.London:W.W. Norton & Company,2005 