2014 Cadillac Advertisement

 Money, it’s what we work for without that we won't be able to fulfill our hopes and dreams, that’s very unsatisfying to hear but it’s how this cruel world works. On the other hand, we do have family and that’s a huge factor for happiness but, with a family it also means more money needed to provide for your family. People tend to be very close minded when it comes to how money has such a big impact on our everyday lives,but that’s just my view, money is crucial. Everyone has their own point of view when it comes to this controversial topic, regardless; it is my personal perspective of the issue. On the other hand, having equality is another story, implying that Americans are somehow superior than others is a negative connotation.  Their is a difference between stating that money comes from hard work then how Americans are apparently “superior” to others. Unfortunately, that is what the 2014 Cadillac ELR commercial was implying when Neal McDonough stated, “Other countries, they work, they stroll home. They stop by the cafe. They take August off,” when the commercial was comparing other countries to Americans it was appalling. 

Before getting into how big of a controversy this particular comercial caused here is some history about the product. Cadillac is a luxury car that can catch your eye from a mile away and may make you wish, man I want that. The luxury car was founded by Henry Ford an automotive maker sadly; Cadillac was his second failing company. The Cadillac being a “top” brand car has had some vehicles that just didn’t make the cut and was unpopular. For example, the Cadillac ELR was one of them; after a very long development the vehicle's life was short lived. GM had euthanized its Cadillac ELR Range-Extended electric luxury coupe in early development because of a Stability-Control Software issue. The Cadillac 2014 ELR was a very risky product that the Cadillac Company believed in, unfortunately it was not a very successful product compared to others. The Cadillac ELR was priced at 76,000 dollars clearly a huge price disadvantage from the Chevy Volt who was their competitor at the time. The few benefits that the Cadillac ELR had were not really a selling point because of multiple drawbacks. The Volt at the time costed 35,000 dollars in 2014, astonishingly the Cadillac ELR went for twice that much at a less value 45,000-50,000 dollars it mindblowing. 

The Cadillac, Poolside commercial states, “Working hard leads to a big house and Cadillac in your backyard,” well at least that is what this advertisement is portraying. Materialism at its finest, it showed how if you work hard take no breaks or vacations then you will get for sure get that expensive new car. Manipulation and brainwashing, this commercial makes no actual claims and is intended to convey the message that the “American Dream” is built on hard work and effort, while introducing the Cadillac ELR, but has been seen as nothing more than a “rich” man’s vehicle.  The advertisement states how other countries do not work as hard as Americans, therefore do not get paid as much as people who don't take long “vacation” days. Car companies tend to present there commercials in a materialistic depiction of the American Dream so they could sell their brand and make their consumers believe that the car has great American value. 

The advertisement for the 2014 Cadillac ELR is entitled “Poolside”.  The commercial is focused on the actor Neal McDonough, in the beginning of the commercial you see the backside of McDonough standing right infront of his big underground pool holding a newspaper thinking out loud about the role of hard work. McDonough states inside the commercial, “Why do we work so hard? For this? For stuff?” The advertisement goes on and it’s very clear that the answer to all three of those questions is, yes. After the question Neal McDonough walks around the pool and goes inside his house where two girls his “daughters” are sitting on the couch in the living room, one studying and the other using a tablet. As he passes them, he meets a woman who hands him a newspaper in the kitchen. He then states that, “Other countries, they work, they stroll home. They stop by the cafe. They take August off. OFF.” Which implies that other countries do not work as hard as Americans, but are more lazy and laid back using up vacation days that aren’t needed. Next, the actor enters a room and in just a second comes out in what appears to be a very expensive grey suit then heads outside in the front yard and stands right next to the Cadillac ELR unplugging it from a cord connected to his house; while this is all happening the actor carries on with his speech on hard work, concluding: “Why aren’t you like that?” he says. “Why aren’t we like that? Because we’re crazy, driven, hard-working believers, that’s why.” The man speaks very heavily about his; “stuff;” and the expensive house, this would appeal to people that value luxurious items. The man speaks with confidence and pride throughout the commercial which makes the audience become more intrigued and effects our emotions personally whether in a frustrated or a prideful way.

For the “2014 Cadillac ELR: Poolside” commercial it uses pride to sell their new product. The actor definitely sought out the consideration of all Americans stating “we” work hard, and “we” also don’t take vacations like others do around the world. He states “we” throughout the whole commercial nine times, using “we” multiple times provides the American audience to have a connection with each other. This pattern may be created by the advertisement so that they can be expanded by viewer purchasing the cadillac, thus, leading to a great rhetorical strategy. The use of “we” brings a sense of unity for the audience, but as stated before the commercial goes to far comparing other countries to ours in a very controversial way creating a negative effect. Thus, turning away possible clients because many believe that the “American Dream,” isn't just about being better than others but equality. This is due to the fact that the “American Dream”, in my opinion, is not about being better than anyone else. This advertisement comes from a credible well known source the Cadillac a luxury vehicle company. Also, when the actor, Neal McDonough  speaks about all his “stuff” and his expensive house, would appeal to individuals that value luxury items.

 Furthermore, McDonough can be seen as an important authority figure because of the his work attire and wealthiness. He also spoke with authority, confidence, and pride the way that he would carry on through his conversation could really affect the audiences emotions in multiple different ways such as, anger, pride, jealousy, surprised, or understanding. Depending on your perspective of the message the commercial is portraying. There was a logical pattern going on throughout the commercial, stating that hard work leads to money for a beautiful big house, pool, education, career, and more importantly a 2014 Cadillac ELR. The underground pool, two story house, tablets, expensive clothing and the Cadillac ELR are all signifiers of wealth and luxury. Additionally, the woman inside the kitchen and the two young girls sitting in the living room can all be interpreted as his family. The definite overall aspect that the audience can see about this advertisement is a husband with a nice family, and he will be always working hard in order to achieve riches and wealth. Overall, the commercial tries to make americans feel united because it stated how hardworking they are but, instead they started a whole controversy about how they mistreated the meaning of being americans, that nothing he would say was related to equality. 

Thus, buyers can or will assume that if you work hard none stop with no breaks or vacation days and purchase a Cadillac ELR luxury car than they’ll be able to obtain and live a luxurious and successful life. One of the main issues with this advertisement is that it encourages an unattainable ideology. When creating this nonviable world where anyone can become successful this advertisement absolutely disregards that. In reality there is a lot of unfairness and inequalities in which limits a lot of people from living up to this insubstantial belief that Americans are hard working individuals who never stop working to get the “cash" and are superior to other countries who take breaks.











Work Cited

AtanasNenov. “Cadillac ELR Coupe 2014 Commercial.” YouTube, YouTube, 8 Feb. 2014

 

“General Motors buys Cadillac.” History.com, A&E Television Networks,

 

McCarthy., Michael, and Michael McCarthy View all articles by this author. “Cadillac Clears Up 'Misconceptions' About Contentious 'Poolside' Ad.” Ad Age, 1 Mar. 2014

 

Santamaría, Lía Martínez. “Semiotic and Creative Revolution Analysis: Cadillac's Poolside.” Advertising & Society 2014, 18 Mar. 2014

 

“Americans Work Hard – Cadillac ELR Commercial.” AdFibs.com,

Weiss, Elizabeth. “American Ads, American Values.” The New Yorker, The New Yorker, 18 June 2017

 

Cook, Eli. “How Money Became the Measure of Everything.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 19 Oct. 2017,

















Penal Code 118.1 Violation

Most television shows and movies tend to represent policing as an intense and fast pace procedure where the good guy always wins. Which is an incorrect illustration, about every service accomplished by officers call for some sort of permanent record.   The phrase “report” in policing, from the article Legal Beatle, is described as, “the physical record of an incident deemed to be illegal or potentially illegal. It is taken by a representative of a police department and filed according to said department's procedure.”(Shewanda Pugh) Personally I am very passionate about the law enforcement field because of the sacrifices paid when associated in the criminology field. Such as long hours, working holidays, stress, hazardous traffic fatalities, risks of injuries or worse and much more. What is really frustrating about some police officers is that many will disrespect their job responsibilities by being dishonest while filing there police report and consequently being charged with filing a false police report. Officers who file these false reports risk ruining their whole career and they must realize the consequences for these actions. 

	This permanent record described above is also known as a “incident report.” As a prosecutor reads over a police report he or she will not have the ability to have the same experience that the victim had such  as, there pain, screams, or experiencing the gushing blood that occurred by the assault weapon Therefore, prosecutors will have to understand what occurred by reading police reports. When reading police reports prosecutors will decide what exact charges will be filed if they decide to file criminal charges. As a result, they expect police reports to not contain any false accusations.  Penal Code 118.1 was amended in 1992 and was soon effected on January 1st 1993 and it states, 

Every peace officer who files any report with the agency which employs him or her regarding the commission of any crime or any investigation of any crime, if he or she knowingly and intentionally makes any statement regarding any material matter in the report which the officer knows to be false, whether or not the statement is certified or otherwise expressly reported as true, is guilty of filing a false report punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for up to one year, or in the state prison for one, two, or three years. This section shall not apply to the contents of any statement which the peace officer attributes in the report to any other person.

For a criminal charge to be faced it two specific elements, “knowing” and “intent.” It’s not enough to charge an officer if  he or she provided unknowingly misinformation to their report as a honest mistake or error. Specifically, the police officer who made the false report must have the knowledge of the deception and their explanations when they were written. Therefore, an officer will not be charged of any crime if they wrote in their report a false accusation that they believed to be true at the time of the investigation or crime. The majority of police officers are professional enough to write out there reports truthfully and in a timely manner. While, 1 out of 5 police officers continue to write false reports for crimes, false identification, details or information about an accident, theft, or knowingly stating untrue facts about stolen or damaged items. 

If police offices are guilty for a false police report depending on jurisdiction officers who filed the false report can be charged with a felony or misdemeanor. When a case involves less disturbances for police or other agencies it gravitates more toward a misdemeanor, while if an officer creates any false evidence, confusion,  or harm when filing there police report felony charges will be faced. If charged with a misdemeanor jail time may be served for a term of one year or less with a 500 dollar fine. While, a felony for filing a false police report can lead to a maximum sentence of four years with a maximum 2,000 dollar fine. There have been multiple recent charges filed against officers who file false police reports. For example, an Idaho police officer by the name of Jarad Webb who was in the police force since 2003 was fired on March 26, 2018 for a false police report filed to get prescription medication. Webb was charged with a felony count because he obtained a substance by fraud including a misdemeanor for filing a false report. He received prescription medication by telling deputies he needed to report a theft so he can illegally get a prescription refill. After being booked Webb was soon released from the Canyon County Jail on a fifty thousand dollar bond. 

A more serious crime was reported by, Lanie Lee Cook about a former officer in Martinville. Codie Doge 34 years old at the time was charged for assaulting two people and tried to cover his tracks by filing false reports, tampering with evidence, and trying to get other officers to help with his crime. Dodge was in the Lafayette Parish jail for three days and later was then released on a 1 hundred thousand dollar bond.  Although Dodge was released he faced two conditions first, he was prohibited from getting into contact with any victims, law enforcement officer, or witnesses for information about the case and second, he may never posses any firearms or use the internet for anything if it is not for his job for any circumstances. False police reports are not only found by prosecutors a recent study was done in Chicago by the Tribune. In the article, Over 125K complaints against Chicago cops it states, “Chicago police officers have amassed more than 100 complaints each over their careers, including notoriously corrupt cops who wound up in prison but also others whose allegations of repeated wrongdoing were never before made public.” (Richards, Hing and Meisner) Approximately 125 thousand complaints against around 25 thousand police officers. These reports (90%) from citizens were soon determined to be untrue because not enough evidence was provided to prosecute Chicago police officers. 

Just as any other crime filing a false police report will stay on your permanent record and can affect future job options depending on the employer. Overall, False police reports are known to be a common crime done by many police officers to cover up their mistakes or make false accusations on a case. When filing a police report their must be written carefully and correctly because if there is any feeling of filing a false report an officer must contact agencies and avoid waiting any longer so they are not charged with filing a false police report. Officers who file these false reports risk ruining their whole career and they must realize the consequences for these actions to set an example for fewer crimes alike.







Work Cited

“Definition of a Police Report.” Legal Beagle, legalbeagle.com/5679723-definition-police-report.html.

 

Police Officers Filing False Reports | CA Penal Code 118.1 PC, www.shouselaw.com/police-officers-filing-false-reports.html. 



Mischke, Nichole. “Idaho Officer Fired, Charged with Felony, after Filing False Police Report to Fill Prescription.” KHQ Home - Spokane, North Idaho News & Weather KHQ.com, 3 Apr. 2018



Hamilton, Matt. “Fullerton Police Officer Charged with Filing False Report.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 15 Mar. 2017



“Police Department.” California Penal Code Section 148.5 PC | Police Department.



Richards, Jennifer Smith, et al. “Over 125K Complaints against More than 25K Chicago Cops.” Chicagotribune.com, 16 Oct. 2016. 

