Social Media

Social media such as, Facebook is a network that helps people to stay connected with the world.

Do social networking sites enhance a young person's life or serve as a substitute for a real social life? My response to that is yes and no. Social networking such as Facebook is a good networking site because in Facebook people can actually see the news. For example, if they did not have to time to turn the tv on before going to work they can see the news on Facebook. Facebook keeps people updated, people can talk to other people who are in another part of the world, and it keeps people reunited.  Also, people can send a massive message to other people like, post a message as status instead of sending individually to each person. With my experience, I use Facebook to see what is happening in the world. I am not really a television person so if I don't use social media I would not be informed. 

Social media can be a great opportunity for business owners. Business owners and either types of profesional organizations can connect with current customers, sell their products and expand their reach using social media. There are actually lots of entrepreneurs and businesses out there that thrive almost entirely on social media and would not even be able to communicate without it.  Also social media can be a lot of fun and enjoyement. Personally I am on facebook sometimes just to see people post and watch some videos and laugh. It is fun for me to see comedy pictures, video or some people's comments. 

Social media can be an enhance for people's life, howerver it can also reduce someone personal social life.  For example when social media becomes an addiction for a youth, it may cause failure in class. By that i mean the students will be on Facebook instead of paying attention to what the teacher is teaching.  Also , nowadays youth have some site where they talk to people that they have never met; that is so dangerous. I am a forensic investigation major and i love to watch police or criminal t.v shows. Emission Jane Doe, for example, and most of the cases are relate to online meetings. Not everybody has good intensions; some people are just on social media to harm other people. And again, just because social media can keep people informed does not mean that they  have to believe everything it says.  Social media can be a privacy issue sometimes. By people sharing so much information about themselves, it will always be a big concern. Talking about students, students  don't review their lessons anymore. If they have homework they would rather google everything and copy and paste rather than using their intelligence and thinking about the subject, and that reduces their way of thinking.  

In conclusion, social media is good by keeping people aware of what's happening in the world but can also be harmful. It all depends on how it has been using and what the purposes are.

Works Cited

Elise Moreau - https://www.lifewire.com/advantages-and-disadvantages-of-social-networking-3486020

