



Social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat provide social networking services to people of all ages all over the world. These social networking applications are used to network with other people who share similar interests and allows them to interact. No doubt the popularity of social networking applications is ever increasing with teens and college-aged people. With this popularity in use, the question arises whether these social networks are helping the younger generations’ social life? 

In my experiences, my friends like other young people of our generation use the various social networks not just daily, but sometimes several times a day. It is evident that many people in my generation are always staring at their phone or some other device, to stay connected throughout the day. Whether it be a text message on one of the apps like Facebook or Twitter, or a picture on Instagram or Snapchat, these sites provide young people with the opportunity to stay connected to friends and family and make new friends. We can share pictures and exchange ideas which can be beneficial in an education setting for enhanced learning opportunities. Using apps to communicate with group school projects is always a great tool for collaboration. The enhancement of one’s social life through the connections is important. This is especially important for college students to stay in touch with high school friends, and family but also to interact with new college friends. A young person only needs to interact with others in an app to be social. 

 	However, there is also a drawback to the younger generation using social networking.  No one can dispute the advantage of being able to talk to someone through social media, but at the same time, social networking has become a cripple in the lives of many young people these days. Some people in my generation lack social skills when they interact in person with others. The deficient is because they are no longer talking primarily to people in person and these social networks have replaced their social life. Face to face communication includes non-verbal communications such as eye contact, facial expressions, and a sense of space regarding the other person. Even posture and the tone of voice are important parts of communicating face to face.   If a person is not used to face to face communication, they may not know how to read the non-verbal cues, thus when these people are put in situations in real life they don’t know how to act and will use their phone and social media to hide from there awkwardness. Some of my friends are very social online, yet they do not make eye contact with others in face to face communication. It is as they have missed the social connection of nonverbal cues that are important in making connections with other people. 

 	Social media has done wonders to keep people in touch and help reconnect but cannot be used to replace one’s social life. These apps are not going anywhere and will be used for many good things, but nothing can compare going out and hanging out with people in real life. With the right balance between online and real-life social life, social networks can be a great help to enhance one’s social life.