When out in today's world, it is hard to ignore the fact that everyone is too connected. Children as young as three have already acquired electronic devices. When I was just twelve years old, I remember having a Facebook account. Today's technology is not all bad, but in this case social networking takes a toll on young person's social life. Their social life can be affected by social networking. Because they started using technology at a young age, they become obsessed with it, they would rather be on their phone than in a real-life experience, and they acquire a negative self-image of themselves by comparing themselves to others online

Unsurprisingly, children growing up with devices from an early age are probably going to have issues connecting to the real world. Being so attached to technology at a young age causes an obsession with a social life that is behind a screen. From what I have observed, a child that is surrounded by technology at a young age is more likely to be obsessed with it as a young person. This is the basis for the diminishing of a young person's life. If this is all that a person has known, it is hard for them to see that their social life is being unfulfilled.

Also, young people who spend most of their time on their phone scrolling through social-networks miss out on real life experiences. They may not realize it now, but in later years they will wish they have spent more time being in the moment. I notice people at events such as concerts, who watch and record the whole thing through their phone. They never just take a second to look up and take in the moment. Young people will also take hundreds of pictures of themselves just to find the right one to post for their followers. Most hangouts for young people consist of them just staring at their phones instead of talking to one another. 

In addition, an intense connection with social networking leads to an unhealthy self-image. I know from personal experience that looking on Instagram and seeing others have a fabulous time is difficult. It really makes you perceive that they have an awesome life. However, that is only the parts of their life they want their followers to see. Some young people rely too heavily on the approval of others through social networking. Out of all the reasons why social networking is a substitute for real life, I believe this is the most prominent one. 

Today's world of young people is a different generation from all those who have gone before us. They were the first group to grow up with social networking at their fingertips. This has caused them to be obsessed with having their phones and social networks. Without the access, they feel in the dark. I do not believe that we can come back from this major decline in today's youth. The most important life experiences and events are already behind us and wasted. The most carefree and easy times of a person's life can be stolen by the very addictive social networking we use today. 



