Diagnostic Essay

	Social media has two words: social and media. The word media implies something in the virtual world. Social media is social life through social websites such as Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat. Being involved in social media does not give make you “social.” Your picture on Instagram may have hit one hundred likes. However, to obtain a true social life means letting people know the real you, not the you behind a screen. 

	Social media gives many chances to openly express your opinions on a website. Since people have the security of a computer screen, they are not afraid to express their personal beliefs. Some beliefs can be hurtful or harsh while others are meant to encourage or uplift someone. However, the security of the computer screen gives plenty of opportunities to be misunderstood. It is easy to take an innocent comment as rude or disrespectful. When you talk with someone face-to-face, you can see emotions or hear the tone of their voice. Therefore, it is easier to understand the other person’s intentions when they give his or her opinions. Social media provides a barrier that can lead to being misunderstood. Being misunderstood could give the impression someone is being bullied and could lead to cyber trouble. 

	Talking with someone face-to-face is a sure way to have a true social life. For example, if you go through your whole friends list on Facebook, you may see familiar names or faces. You may no longer remember other names or faces. Take into consideration how long it has been since you have talked to these people in person. It might have been days, months, or even years since you have seen them. You might have “liked” their status a couple hours ago, but that does not compare to sitting down and having a true conversation with them. Social media is more of a social alternative. Having friends on Facebook is not the same as having friends in real life.

	Social alternatives include but are not limited to: Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, or Twitter. On these websites you get to be the “you” you wish to be. Being social in the flesh means having enough confidence in yourself to walk up to someone, introduce yourself, and have a decent conversation. College is the perfect example of having a true social life. As a college student, I can honestly say I have enjoyed meeting new people on the spot. When you meet someone new and it turns into a friendship, it feels great knowing the person likes the real you instead of the one behind a screen.

	Social media is simply as alternative for a true social life. People can get to know you through your posts, likes, or “tweets.” However, your actions on social media do not always reflect who you truly are. On social media, you show people the picture you have been editing for hours. You show people the prettier, or more attractive you. You show people you are interested in things you despise. Others may like the “you” on social media. The only way to be sure they like you is if they sit down and get to know you in person. There are plenty of ways to get out of the black hole called social media. Go to parties or get involved in clubs or organizations. Try something other than sitting at home online. Go out and be social.