I classify myself as a Christian. Being brought up as a Catholic and completing my sacraments were important to me and my beliefs. It was hard to read this book without being prejudice. Paine is not an Atheist but instead a Deist. He believes in a superior God, but not a God as portrayed in the Bible, which means he isn't totally shooting down my own religious beliefs. You see, Paine does not believe Jesus Christ is the son of God, but he has an awful lot of respect for Jesus Christ. He sees Jesus as a likeable rebel.

I thoroughly felt The Age of Reason does a perfect job of displaying several inconsistencies in the Bible, as well as pinpointing acts of God that have the appearance of being, un-Godly.

Paine is not an atheist. He believes in the God who created the universe, not the individuals who wrote a book.  He shows that the Bible was not written by God - displaying the never ending inconsistencies found in the Bible, displaying where most of the Old Testament basically is a manual of race extermination. Paine had no doubt that to make sense of the intellect of God we should learn the book of his making - the universe.

There are so many practices in the Bible that people would not tolerate now.  And these are assumed to be prophecies from God? I thought a long time ago that at best, the Bible was a book of ancient times. As a matter of fact Paine says it is more like a book of fables... legends and customs that were passed down generation to generation and beyond shadow of doubt, hundreds of years after the fables and legends were assumed to have come about, recorded. 

He absolutely makes a great case against the Bible being the word of God. Paine is open to suggestions and ahead of his time. This book assisted me in dealing with my uncertainty and tossing it into the real world.  I had disbelief for a good reason at least that was my ultimate choice. I found out that I can still believe in God beyond the religious build up that man fabricates. "My mind is my own church,” The Age Of reason, pg. 50.  The Bible and Christianity provide a big part in many people's lives. Acceptable or not, for most, religion makes their lives more valuable and motivates them to be better. I’m quite happy with that. I love to think that all of the body of knowledge and beauty of the world speak of a God. We don't require the words of man to give facts, in that, the facts delivers for it.

