Social media is a huge advancement on how we, as people, communicate with the world. Although we connect with people all over the world, social media might be doing more harm than good. Through my personal life to my daily observations as a college student and brother I have seen how social media is more of a substitute to a real, social life. Truly in the lives of men and women, in all walks of life, social media is the social life they choose over an in person social life.

	Starting off, middle school is rough for most everyone. I, myself, had been hit hard by the reality of adolescence and growing up within those awkward years; the thought of growing up then only made me sick. I had developed a few mental disorders and wanted nothing more than to escape life. Social media was the easiest way to leave the hellish life of middle school for at least a few moments. I thought that all of my anxieties would disappear if I talked to people from all over the United States; my thoughts were such that I could hopefully find someone that saw some precious material or some sort of beauty in me. I decided social media would be an excellent substitute for an in person social life because, that social media life would cure my anxieties and depression, or so I thought. Social media threw me into a spiral of trying to impress random people and falling short of everyone’s expectations but, on a larger scale this time. My depression worsened, as did my anxiety. To this day I still struggle with this and social media honestly doesn’t help in any way.

	Next, social media tends to gain control of young people’s minds, this is usually due to an anxiety termed as F.O.M.O., fear of missing out. College students, knowing or not, give up a large portion of their social life or even education because, they’ll feel as if they are a part of a larger crowd. They want to be the crowd to spread awareness, such as the recent “#metoo” campaign for sexual assault or be a part of a larger more anonymous crowd spreading rumors destroying a person’s life like, the rumors Youtuber Shane Dawson is a pedophile. Young people want to feel like they themselves helped change a life or saved someone without actually trying to do anything. There are the: share, retweet, reblog, send as message, or direct message buttons every young person feels more empowered by each time they use it.

	Now, social media is being traded by young people for a hope that it could help their anxieties but, bullies have realized this now. Back in 2015 in the months of January until September my very own sister made six attempts at her life. This is the girl I had looked up to, the strongest person I could even think of was being tormented by anonymous profiles and evil teenage “queen bee” type girls. She had felt this way because, social media allows an almost free range for user to user direct messages. The advancement that we all crave and love is the reason for thousands of deaths a year and, people still feel social media is worth more than the tormented souls we have lost due to the mild regulations current social media has.

	Finally, social media is being a substitute for young people as their social lives. Social media is an advancement in communication but, it seems it is very rarely a good enhancement. Even as I write I have observed my fellow classmates checking their notifications and have even snapchatted people. Social media is causing young people to develop worse social anxieties and causes them more harm than good.