Upon my first interpretation of “Age of Reason” by Thomas Paine it annoyed me. I felt as if Thomas Paine was attacking my Christian beliefs personally. Upon further reading I began to understand why Paine wrote this the way he did. Soon my emotions turned from anger to wonder and question.

	I was originally angered by some of Paine’s comments. His outright disbelief in the Christian faith and his dismissive tone made me feel as if Paine was trying to imply that all Christians are foolish for believing in the word of God. When Paine talks about “revelations” and how it only applies to that one person and is “hearsay” to all other people directly goes against everything I have been taught in church since I was a young child. This discrepancy in teachings led me to have an internal conflict between my personal feelings and my ability to learn and bring in new thoughts and ideas with an unprejudiced viewpoint.

	 After I was able to step back and take another look from a purely scholarly perspective I was able appreciate what Paine was saying and it even got me to start thinking about everything I have been taught about religion. How is it possible for all these religions to have different stories about how their “Word of God” was given to man. There is no feasible way for all these different religions to be true. So is it not at least possible that none of them are true and that they are all made just to give people the idea that they desire for a higher being that is active in everyday life. After reading this work I began to believe that is entirely possible that God simply created the world and then let the creatures that inhabited it to carry out and create their own destiny. Paine states that he does not doubt the “Almighty’s power.” Therefore, Paine inadvertently states that he does believe in a higher power but, he also states his “disbelief” in all other sorts of organized religion. Paine bases his disbelief in organized religion because the Jews just took Moses at his word about the ten commandments being from God. Therefore, why should he partake in the Jewish religion if they have no hard evidence about his word being true. It made me think about how we have, for the most part, operate our religion based solely off the word of other people with no real proof. It just made me wonder about what is true and what may not be.