The Leopard from the East Mountain Terrain

		

There is one kind of leopard which suffer to keep their population consistent, the snow leopard. According to the an organization called WWF (web page), The world’s leading conservation organization, states that “There are only total estimated 4,080-6,590”. This type leopard according to WWF estimation. Reasons why these animals are extremely low in population, is due to poaching, poachers hunts these animal for their the exquisite quality furs, and their pricey bone, and organs which locals uses and creates medicines for their villages. Although Snow leopard can provide a great treasure of usage for Asian culture such as in medicine, exotic fashion, and economy boost. Also often are killed by local farmer because leopards preys on their livestock's. But can it be possible for locals and their countries to see the important and better outcome of saving this leopard from extinction? Saving this leopards from extinction, and making sure that it has a stable population, can be a far greater treasures to obtain.

It is very important not to lose this snow leopards, because if so the habitat and ecosystem in result it will create a unbalance atmosphere. According to an article written by Kevin Lee, (A student majored in Physics began writing professionally in 1989 when, as a software developer, he also created technical articles for the Johnson Space Center.)“What Happens When Something in a Food Chain Goes Extinct? Mentioned the process of unbalance of one goes into extinct, “If one species in the food web ceases to exist, one or more members in the rest of the chain could cease to exist too. A plant or animal doesn't even have to become extinct to affect one of its predators. The harelip sucker fish, for example, used to eat snails in the 19th century. After waste, topsoil and other debris invaded rivers where the fish lived, the snail population dwindled. The U.S. Geological Survey notes that this decline probably caused the fish to go extinct.”. This example ties in with the leopard scenario if there was no more snow leopard then who will be able to keep up and hunt the mountain goats because soon the mountain may take over the farmers food due to shortages of grass. Who else can keep the balance in the Himalayas habitat. WWF stated that “Snow leopards play a key role as both top predator and as an indicator of the health of their high-altitude habitat. If snow leopards thrive, so will countless other species”. (WWF).

Tom McCarthy, a Conservation Director of the International Snow Leopard Trust, which help works with WWF to try and save the remaining 7,000 snow leopards in the wild. Saving these the Leopard are important to Tom McCarthy because he reported that "Snow leopards are one replacement that we know is being more keenly sought. We've just heard that one full snow leopard skeleton was sold for US $10,000.". Additional, "In a lot of places people are not aware yet of what the value of the bones are. Five or six years ago in places like Mongolia the primary trade partner was the Soviet Union. But more trade is going on now with China and when it becomes more widely known in Mongolia what a set of snow leopard bones can sell for in China, we may see more poaching."(WWF News and Stories). As the prize been discovered the demanding for snow leopards bones are going fuel poacher to poach these leopards more often now.

To resolve this issue According to Christine Hauser an New York Times reported that  “A 2010 study of snow leopard scat found that up to 70 percent of the species' diet in the Gilgit Baltistan Province (map) comes from sheep, cattle, and other domestic animals. Some herders have killed snow leopards in retaliation for preying on their livestock”.

 Convincingly local farmer seems to be only individual to having a great excuse to kill snow leopards. From the WWF website and under the stories section mentions this local farmer named Ghana S. Gurung an farmer and a resident living in the Nepalese Mountain, sure have a good purpose to lesser the population of  the snow leopard. Ghana said “During that time, snow leopards used to attack my goats, sheep and little yaks—killing seven, eight, and even 10 in one go,” said Ghana. “It made me angry.” As in many stories heard in Asia High mountain community are the same with farmers killing snow leopards. Over the year as WWF reported “It is estimated that as few as 4,000 of the critically endangered big cats now survive in the wild. And human-snow leopard conflict remains a major threat to the survival of the species”. Later on, Ghana realize that snow leopard are becoming rarely seen.  After he started working in conservation after graduating from Lincoln University in New Zealand.

 In the year 1998, when Ghana joined WWF, due to the lesser sightings of the leopards in Kangchenjunga. To resolve this conflict, and saves these leopard, Ghana started an insurance plan by “Innovative initiative compensates herders for any livestock that they lost to snow leopards, and providing them with the financial support they need to cope with their losses and a reason not to kill a snow leopard in retaliation”. Ghana life saving project to saved many snow leopard because they were able to provide awareness successfully towards the local community. Once Ghana insurance plan started, he also had another plan for the project of saving the leopard, by adding 23 radio collared to the leopards. In results of years of hard work, local communities began changing their attitude towards snow leopards. Later there had not been a single retaliatory killing of a snow leopard for eight years. Now his expectation was proving to escalate the population increase of the leopards brought him joy and beginning to see the leopards living in harmony again. Thankfully, Ghana and his colleagues from WWF-Nepal and the government are doing just that and the result is communities and snow leopards living in increasing harmony together.(WWF). Although Ghana successfully defended the snow leopards in Nepal only, I highly support him to saves more leopards and stop poachers from poaching by adding radio collar device to be able to keep track them. Saving these leopards lives is important to do so because the outcome is saving everyone lives and the greater treasure is Balance.







































Works Cited



Amore, Christines Dell'. “Snow Leopards Need To Be Protected ... But How?” National Geographic, National Geographic Society, 11 Oct. 2012, news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/10/121009-snow-leopards-conservation-big-cats-animals-science/. 

Chadwick, Douglas H. “Snow Leopards.” Snow Leopards - National Geographic Magazine, 28 June 2008, ngm.nationalgeographic.com/2008/06/snow-leopards/chadwick-text.   	

Hauser, Christine. “The Snow Leopard Is No Longer Endangered. It's Still at Risk.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 15 Sept. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/09/15/science/snow-leopard-endangered.html. 

Harvey, Martin. “Snow Leopard.” WWF, World Wildlife Fund, 23 Aug. 2017, www.worldwildlife.org/species/snow-leopard.   	

Lee, Kevin. “What Happens When Something in a Food Chain Goes Extinct?” What Happens When Something in a Food Chain Goes Extinct? | Education - Seattle PI, education.seattlepi.com/happens-something-food-chain-goes-extinct-4656.html. 

“Snow Leopards Poached for New Skeleton Trade.” WWF, 25 Apr. 2001, wwf.panda.org/wwf_news/?2242%2FSnow-leopards-poached-for-new-skeleton-trade. 