Trifles  The play Trifles takes place in the early 1900’s, a time in which women played a much lesser role in society than men. Trifles means to have little value or respect, as depicted by the female characters in this story. Time and time again, the women are talked down upon and treated as if they are of little worth. 

      In the 1900’s, women were strictly confined to their home and house hold obligations. They were more so a slave to the stereo typical tasks like cooking and cleaning while their man performed the labor intensive tasks around the farm. This is shown by the detective who makes many condescending comments about the cleanliness of Mrs. Wrights kitchen when he should be focused on the murder investigation. The detective also jokingly tells the friends of Mrs. Wright to let him know if they find anything, suggesting he feels they are of little important to investigation. 

     During the story there is a great deal of contemplation as to if Mrs. Wright was capable of murder and if so, what motive did she possess?  The sheriff and county attorney are to closed minded to acknowledge a clear motive, however, the women are well aware of the oppression Minnie was facing in her marriage. The women tell about how much Minnie use to enjoy singing, but was prevented from doing so after marrying her husband. Upon some mingling in Mrs. Wrights room, the women discover a broken bird cage and a small bird with its neck wrung. The cage is symbolic of how trapped Minnie felt living in an oppressive, male dominated house hold. The bird was symbolic of the one thing in Minnie’s life in which brought her joy.

   The men enter the room and briefly ask about the cage, but are far to close minded to understand its significance. Upon some deliberation, the women decide to hide the bird as it presents a motive for Minnie to want to hurt her husband. This part of the story is significant because the women, who the men felt were of no real use to the investigation, have likely just solved the murder. The women feel pity for Mrs. Wright and are guilty for not visiting her in over a year’s time. By hiding the bird, the women present a sort of power move showing that they are completely capable of making their own decisions contrary to common trends of the time period. 

    The title “Trifles” is an embodiment of the perception of women throughout the story and the time period. The women were valued solely on their ability to do chores and lacked a real sense of significance. The story depicts a tale of a women who could no longer bare her social bounds and decided to finally do something for herself.