The Effects of Personal Experience on Literature

	Personal experience affects literature and the reader’s perception of a literature in many ways such as by the conflict they have experienced, by their emotional connection to their story, and by their background. For example, Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid have used the conflicts in their lives to create their works. They have also, used their emotional connections from their life's experiences to tie them to their works. Finally, their backgrounds play a huge role on the creation of their short stories. In Kate Chopin’s “The Story of an Hour,” and Jamaica Kincaid’s “Girl,” it is evident that they used conflict, emotional connection, and background in the creation of their short stories.

Kate Chopin struggled with conflicts dealing with women of her time and the rights that women should have had to escape an unhappy marriage. She also felt strongly about a woman’s role in the household and that it was a woman’s job to keep a man happy. However, Chopin kept her marriage a secret. In “The Story of an Hour,” Chopin’s main character, Mrs. Mallard, represented Chopin’s beliefs because Mrs. Mallard chose death over her unhappy marriage. Jamaica Kincaid also struggled with the what was presented as the roles of a woman in the home, and the belief that women were raised to please men. Kincaid shows this in her work, “Girl,” by explaining the social norms of a female in her community during her time. The conflict these authors have faced throughout their lifetime have helped create a personal experience that impact their literature.

	As well as the effects of conflict, emotional connection plays an important role in the development of literary works. Chopin is emotionally connected to her work because of her strong beliefs about women’s roles in society. In Chopin’s “The Story of an Hour,” she exemplifies the connection of her loveless marriage and that of Mrs. Mallard’s. Like Chopin, Kincaid also shares the same emotions about the roles of women in society as Chopin. Kincaid shows an example of her emotion in her work by stating, “this is how to bully a man; this is how a man bullies you; this is how to love a man, and if it doesn’t work there are other ways, and if they don’t work don’t feel too bad about giving up…” (Meyer p.115). Kincaid uses her emotion in this work as an underlying component to what she believes is appropriate for a woman in a relationship to do. 

	In addition to the conflict and the emotional connections between an author and their works, Chopin and Kincaid use their background as a personal reference to literature and the reader’s perception of a work. Chopin was raised by only her mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and nuns. Thus, further shaping her views on women in marriages and society. For example, in “The Story of an Hour,” Mrs. Mallard, was an independent woman who proved that she did not need a man when she was overjoyed at the news that her husband was dead. Kincaid was also raised by her mother, which had influences on her writing as well. In “Girl,” she also listed the things that were expected of a woman. 

	Personal experience affects literature and the reader’s perception of a literature in many ways, but is not limited to: conflict, emotional connection, and background. Kate Chopin and Jamaica Kincaid experienced conflict through different experiences: Chopin’s struggle with marriage, and Kincaid’s struggle with the man’s expectations of a woman. Also, Chopin and Kincaid’s emotional connections to their writings are shown through their works by their stories of loveless marriages and how it was acceptable to leave them. Lastly, Chopin and Kincaid’s background majorly affected their writings due to the influence of the women throughout their childhoods. Conflict, emotion, and background, have a major impact on a literary work, as well as a reader’s perception of the work based on the impact that the writer’s experiences have on their lives. 




Works Cited

“Biography of Jamaica Kincaid.” . 

8 February 2018. 

Meyer, Michael. The Bedford Introduction to Literature. New York: Bedford/ St. Martin’s, 2016. 

Print

“The Role of the Wife and Mother.” Kate Chopin - The Role of the Wife and Mother during the 

Late 19th Century. . 8 

February 2018.

.