
	After reading “The Age of Reason,” I had many thoughts initially. At first, I felt confusion and intrigue. But after reading it and looking over it again I understood where he was coming from. The confusing aspect of it started melting away and I understood it. Paine thinks that all religions are set up to scare people into believing what they want them to believe in, or to take control of money and power. I can see how he could draw upon that conclusion. Although I can see how he came up with that, I do not fully agree with him. With that being said, my final two feelings were intrigue and slight disagreement. 

	I grew up going to Christian schools all my life. I’ve heard every story in the Bible ten times at least. For me, the Christian faith is all I have known. After reading what Thomas Paine had to say about the Christian faith, and religion over all, it had me thinking. Thinking that he was partially right about religions. Sometimes they do try to scare you into believing what they want you to believe by giving you examples of what will happen to you if you if don’t believe. Saying you will be condemned to Hell for eternal life is one way they try to scare you into believing. Although Paine and I agree slightly upon that, I still think that sometimes the only way to get people to listen to you is fear. People don’t like fear. People rather have the peace of mind rather than think for themselves.

	My second emotion was intrigue. Paine’s ideas about religion had me thinking. Thinking of all the different possibilities of faith that is out there. He brings up many different examples on how each faith has something that is hearsay. He brings up virgin Mary, saying that the whole situation of that could be made up and that he doesn’t believe it because he has no proof of it. Examples like that intrigue me to think on my own and really open my mind to many different ideas that I had never thought about before. 

	In conclusion, this reading has opened my eyes to many different thinking routes. He had me intrigued and in somewhat agreement with him. I didn’t agree with everything he was saying but a small chunk. The initial confusion began to fall away, and I began to see what he meant with this writing.

	

	