The Difference Between High School and College Writing

	Many people ask what is the difference between highschool and college writing, well what do you believe the difference is? The difference is in high school they only give you a reading with one point of view and in college you get a reading of multiple point of views.

College and high school writing have certain similarities, for instance you still have to cite your resources and you still can not plagiarize.

What is your idea of highschool writing? In high school, students are taught the basic way of writing which is a minimum a five paragraph essay. This essay must contain an introduction for the first paragraph, 3 body paragraphs and for the last paragraph a conclusion. These are the five pieces of writing teachers require for students to have in high school. Although, in other areas it can be different because students can be educate in a different way.  High school writing was a bit easier because you were guided throughout your whole writing because there was not a particular format you had to use. Another reason why high school writing was different than college writing was because the writing in high school was a lot shorter with at least 300 to 400 words. Also, most teachers in high school  did not worry about grammar and punctuation. Teachers also gave their students time to work on their writing in class. For example Milka Mustenkova Mosley explains in “The Truth about High School English that,”In general, I would call high school writing formulaic. We have too many students and too little time for grading, so we often allow students to follow a formula to produce a product.”(Mosley 58). What she was referring to this quote is that since most teachers in high school have so many students they teach the students the simpler ways of writing step by step because they have a short amount of time to grade each of the students papers. But, even though high school writing is easier than college writing we should all be able to understand that there can be issues with education. Which for some students it is impossible for them to be able to write a paper due to the bad performances they may had received from there teachers or even the school just not being in good conditions. Yet college writing is not the same as high school writing.

College writing is different than high school writing because of the structure that is taught  by a professor. Another reason why college writing is different from high school writing  is because punctuation and grammar does matter to professors. Also your writing is no longer short like in high school in college you are expected to write up to at least 10 to 12 pages. College writing is tougher and different because you are expected to know how to use quotes and cite properly. You also need to be able to point your thesis out to your audience to get your point across to inform the audience on what your writing is going to be about. Another difference between highschool and college writing is that in college you must have context talking about what you’re writing. If you do not give background information then the audience will be confused because they don’t know what you are talking about, so you need context to inform the reader what your topic is about. College has high standards when it comes to writing because you are expected to know how to write other genres. For example, Milka Mustenikova Mosley explains in “The truth about High School English” that, “However in order to prepare students for careers in today's competitive world,college students are required to produce very specialized writing tasks in their classes such as lab reports, case studies, research papers, proposals, literature reviews, memos, arguments, interpretations, historical narratives, impact statements, and essay questions based on different sources of information specific professional models.”(Mosley 59).What she is saying in this quote is that by knowing how to write all different types of writing genres, it may help a lot of students in their career. Some of the generalizations that freshman college students come across is the level of difficulty, due to the fact that college students are held at a higher expectation than high schooler’s, also because of the fact that the structure of the writings being assigned to college students were also of a higher standard. In high school, the basic techniques of writing were taught, which was the simple “five paragraph essay.” and didn’t worry about other things. Students expected writing to be the same, but it was not the same. Throughout this semester Students started to realize the difference between the writings in highschool and college. At this point what students know about writing is that giving context is important because it allows the audience to know what your writing is going to be about so they are on the same page as you. There is always a reason on why writers choose to write. For instance, it can be either to persuade the audience or just to make them understand the message you are giving in your writing. College writing is more advanced because being at a high level you are expected to know what an essay should contain. Writing does have similarities after all because you are still using paragraphs in your writing and you still use quotes to backup your writing in high school and college but it’s the structure and the way you choose to view the writing that is different in college than in high school. 

In conclusion, writing can help navigate the intellectual demands of academia by using the techniques you know and the techniques you learn. It can help you be successful in writing in many ways in life. For example when you come across a writing assignment in college you are then well prepared and ready to attack the assignment. The meaning of attack the assignment is that it is now easy to approach the prompt because of the skills you have developed. Not only will it help you in school but even in your future days. By then writing will be as simple as riding a bicycle. To conclude, this essay used rhetoric to help you come to understand the difference between high school and college writing by viewing the differences in between them. Hopefully you have realized how writing can help you navigate the intellectual demands of academia because writing is very important because you never know when you will have another writing task. Although issues can occur in education you can still view with this essay that you can see how you can fix your problems by trying the techniques and structures.





WordCount: 1142




Work Cited

Mosley Milka M. “The Truth about High School English”Canton,Georgia        