Comparing Poetry to Prose Writing

	Poetry and prose writing are not the same thing. However, these styles are similar in many ways. In class I learned poetry has two key aspects: inspirational and mechanical. The “inspirational” aspect of poetry includes emotion, imagination, and evocation. Like poetry, prose writing includes, but is not limited to, these same elements.

	The first element in poetry is emotion. Poetry is a type of literature that is expressive and tells a story in a specific form. The poet usually writes about a story or a personal experience. Because poetry can correlate to a personal experience, poetry is emotional. Fictional, or prose writing is storytelling. The author tells a story that is not always true, but the story can symbolize an event in the author’s life. The events that influenced these authors’ stories might have been traumatic. Prose writing and poetry are similar in an emotional way.

	The second element in poetry is imagination. Since it is considered storytelling, prose writing requires imagination. The author has to be able to tell a story while incorporating their own experiences or desired symbols into the story. Poetry is a type of literature that is expressive and tells a story in a specific form. Imagination in poetry is what the poet puts in. Poets, too, have to find a way to tell a story but in a specific form. The writing process for both of these styles require a great amount of imagination. When it comes to poetry and prose writing, there is a large amount of creativity and imagination used.

	The third and final element in poetry is evocation. Imagination is what the writer puts into the story while evocation is what the reader takes out of the author’s work. In any story, there is a lesson learned or a feeling felt by the reader. Regardless of whether it is poetry or prose writing, there is always some kind of evocation that takes place.

	Poetry and prose writing may not be the same but they do have some things in common. Both authors and poets incorporate emotion and imagination in their works to get evocation. 