A Facebook Social Life 

	To be or not to be social? The decision of whether or not to be socially interactive has surfaced with the rise of social media sites. The ability to interact with friends online has eliminated the necessity to constantly communicate face-to-face. One must ask, though, is this new era of social interaction a privilege or a disadvantage?  Social-networking sites enhance a young person’s social life by making interaction available to anyone at any time, spotlighting local events, and creating new relationships. 

	Introducing interaction from any available location to any person has created an overall social advantage. In the past, interaction depended on whether the individual was available to meet up in person. Now, due to the invention of applications such as whatsapp, messaging across borders is now possible. This creation has established the potential to interact with distant family/friends from the comfort of home. Introducing this method of communication has heightened the ability to become socially interactive by offering choices for conversation instead of just conforming to meeting up in person. Ending the need of face-to-face interaction permits individuals with social anxiety or even contagious illnesses to be given the chance to engage in a form of interaction. Granting the opportunity to a less marginalized population instead of limiting social interactions to those who are extroverted gives all people -- introverted or extroverted -- an advantage in social interaction. 

	Furthermore, social-networking sites are capable of informing communities of social gatherings near them. Sites, such as Facebook, allow companies to create public pages to inform the population of future events. For instance, Christmas on the Square was an event held by the city of Talladega. This event was publicized using an informational page created on Facebook. Publicizing events on social-networking sites is a modern version of flyers except it reaches a much larger audience. The larger the audience reached, the larger the opportunity of having a greater attendance level. If interested in attendance, an individual is given the chance to socialize with people of the community and surrounding communities while enjoying the activities at the event; benefiting social lives by spotlighting current activities that provide a chance to enhance social interaction. 

	Finally, a majority of  modern relationships are fostered through the use of social-networking. Dating applications such as Tinder, match two singles who seem to be compatible based on a number of criteria, such as geographic location, age, and gender. This criteria being widely known from the data that is revealed on the created profile.With these types of sites in reach, many couples have obtained a happily-ever-after following social communication. Though, these sites also help to foster friendships between those whom hold common interests. By offering an outlet to illustrate one’s persona others can “shoot their shot” at friendship. Social-networking sites offer a space to meet others followed by critical communication. Demonstrating the chance of finding new relationships through the usage of applications, just as Tinder, results in the enhancement of social interaction while promoting a healthy social life. 

	To conclude, people today have access to new and innovative forms of communication. The dilemma surfaces if whether these sites offer an advantage or disadvantage. With the growing popularity of social media, social-networking becomes beneficial to an individual’s social life. Some advantages are constant availability of interaction at any location to any person, spotlighting events, and the ability to obtain new relationships; establishing social-networking as a social advantage rather than disadvantage. 